---
date: 2022-11-13
---

## Work

I took Thursday and Friday off this week.  Unlike at GDS, the leave year here is
the same as the calendar year, rather than running from when I joined.  I had 5
days left, which I could have carried forward to next year, but I decided to
take a couple of them sooner rather than later.

I should really work out the optimal distribution of days off: maybe the last
Friday or first Monday of every month, so I always start / end with a three-day
weekend, would be nice.  But longer periods, like a week or more, are good too!
It's hard to decide what the balance should be.

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Goblin Emperor][] by Katherine Addison

  It's a book about an unexpected heir to the throne of the elflands suddenly
  becoming emperor, as everyone ahead of him in the line of succession gets
  wiped out in an airship crash.  The focus is on navigating politics and plots,
  and I really enjoyed it.  Except for one thing: the timescale just didn't feel
  right.

  There's a lot of action, including events which take multiple weeks to
  complete, and then someone remarks that a lot has happened since the
  protagonist became emperor a month ago.  It's supposed to reinforce how hectic
  and fast-paced everything is, but it just didn't feel right.  The protagonist
  is supposed to be really busy with governing, has several weekly appointments
  (and multiple instances of those appointments are described, so multiple weeks
  have definitely passed), and also attends two or three parties and many
  dinners... I'm still not convinced that if I were to count the days it would
  actually add up to no more than a month.

- Volumes 6, 7, and 8 of [That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime][] by Fuse

  The anime goes up to the end of volume 6, so I'm now ahead in the story.
  Starting to get into the stuff I've until now only gleaned from the (not very
  good) wiki.  Things are making more sense in the books.

  The story is, like all isekai, kind of trash.  It's just the "white saviour"
  trope (except the savior is Japanese) crossed with portal fantasy in a world
  which runs under video game logic (for some reason), but it's fun.  This,
  Overlord, and Spider, are definitely amongst the better crop of isekai
  stories: there's so much trash out there, but there's also cream which rises
  to the top.

I don't really do reading goals any more (since I found it was making me
prioritise books for their length, rather than just reading whatever I wanted
to), but I've now passed 52 books this year, which is a nice milestone.

[The Goblin Emperor]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Goblin_Emperor
[That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/That_Time_I_Got_Reincarnated_as_a_Slime


## Roleplaying Games

### Wicked Ones

Another week, another session.  This time one of the major factions completed a
scheme to launch an attack on the player's dungeon, so they spent the first half
of the session fighting that off.

Frankly, I was surprised they got through it without any characters dying.  When
I planned it I thought "this is it, this is the potential campaign-ending
threat", and yet they survived with one character getting knocked out and nobody
killed.

I quite like the faction system, it's very simple, and ensures that stuff
gradually happens behind the scenes beyond what the players directly influence.
I do wonder if it's a bit too simple though, as *e.g.* there's no way for one
faction to *resist* the goals of another faction.

Though, I'm starting to get a little tired of only having player-facing rolls.

Powerful foes get three "moves", things they can do to temporarily seize the
initiative.  Without a move, NPCs can only act in response to what the players
do.  Which has some problems:

1. I have much less ability to influence the narrative: I can only react, not
   act.
2. The NPCs become weaker for no in-game reason (I also dislike "once per rest"
   style abilities for exactly the same reason).
3. The players start optimising their choices for "what is safest if I fail?"
   since they know that's the *only* way in which an NPC could try to harm them.
4. If a player fails a roll and the NPC hurts them (or whatever), it doesn't
   feel like that happened because the NPC is a powerful foe they need to be
   wary of: it feels like that happened for out-of-game-reasons, because it did.

The 2nd and 4th problems are the biggest ones, but they're also impossible to
resolve.  In FitD and PbtA games, PCs and NPCs are asymmetrical like that *by
design*.  In today's big dungeon invasion, as soon as the moves were used up, it
felt like the threat disappeared, and it just became a matter of time before the
PCs won: which they did.  The PCs all have their own specialisms, and NPCs can't
resist their attacks, so if a PC is rolling three or four dice and needs just
one 4+ to hurt the NPC, they're likely going to get it.  And if they get
anything below a 6, and so take some consequences, they can roll to resist those
consequences as well.

I could power up all the obstacles they face, so everything takes more hits (and
so there's more opportunity for the players to fail rolls) before being taken
out, but that risks turning the game into a slog.  It does feel like for most
obstacles, we're just rolling to see how long and at what price the inevitable
victory comes.

Eight sessions in, it's starting to grate a little.


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [Choosing properties for property-based testing](https://fsharpforfunandprofit.com/posts/property-based-testing-2/)
