---
date: 2022-12-04
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 15 of [So I'm a Spider, So What?][] by Okina Baba

  The penultimate book.  As with all the others, I enjoyed it, it was
  well-written, the author is good at making the series feel like a consistent
  whole with foreshadowing from previous books coming into play in later books.
  Clearly they had a plan for a while (or just kept good notes).

  I thought this (and the next volume) would mostly focus on the other
  reincarnations, which it kind of did, but not to the extent I expected.
  Still, it didn't feel like anything was being cut short, and it's done a good
  job setting up for the next, and final, volume.

  But when will we get series 2 of the anime?

[So I'm a Spider, So What?]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/So_I%27m_a_Spider,_So_What%3F


## Roleplaying Games

### Cartographic Curiosities

This week I had a special 1-on-1 session because all but one player was away
and, coincidentally, [that player managed to get their character separated from
the rest of the party][] (by many miles) due to, uh, seeing a ball of magic in
the air above a stone circle, putting a ladder next to one of the stones,
climbing up it, and leaping into the magic.  Which then flung them many miles
north, to an island next to a ruined fairy castle.  Then they were detained by
the druids who guard that castle to ensure its masters or their helpers never
return.

The druids ended up concluding that the player was probably too honest to be a
scumbag fairy-sympathiser, and let them go: with strings attached.

You see, the player may not be a fairy-sympathiser, but the party *had*
encountered this race of druids before.  They'd trespassed twice on druid lands,
and killed one of the druids trying to remove them (admittedly, the druid was
being somewhat forceful).  So the player agreed to do an unspecified number of
tasks for the druids, to prove that they're actually all stand up guys and the
whole thing was really just a big misunderstanding.

**Druid Quest 1:** bring them a guy who has been paying fairy-gold for
information on the movements of the druids.  What's going to be done with him?
Don't ask, they wouldn't tell you anyway.  But did you know how useful a soul
is?  Well...

So the player was dropped off in the nearest town, told to get going, and they
did: they travelled back to the rest of the party as fast as they could,
carefully avoiding adventure along the way since they're a lone, squishy,
magic-user.  In total, they were gone for 5 days.

It was a very convenient coincidence that the player who could make it was the
player whose character was away from the others.  Next session will begin by
skipping back in time to the rest of the party, to see what they were up to in
those few days.

We'll metagame a little to ensure the party is still in town (or has left and
come back to town) on the day the missing character returns.

[that player managed to get their character separated from the rest of the party]: notes/218.html#cartographic-curiosities

### Sylea Rising

We kicked off the first adventure this week, which is [Murder on Arcturus
Station][].

This is a great scenario, it's a murder mystery but the module doesn't tell you
who the killer is: instead it gives you 10 suspects, their motives, their
alibis, and a few possible sequences of events for each (one for if they're
innocent, the others for if they're the murderer).

It covers how the murderer will maintain their alibi if it conflicts with the
murder (eg, maybe they'll break a clock during the murder, and manually set it
to a time they were seen in public at).

It also gives a list of ways each suspect, or the murderer, might alter their
behaviour (maybe a suspect works out who the murderer is and helps cover for
them).

There's a lot!

Unfotunately, there's also a lot of prep.

First, I had to relocate the adventure to my map.  It's supposed to be set in
[Arcturus][] in the Solomani Rim (as the name would suggest), but my game isn't
in the Solomani Rim, it's in pre-Third-Imperium Lishun!  So I moved it to
[Kir][], and had to also relocate a few other planets mentioned.

Next, I picked out 8 suspects, decided which of those was the murderer and how
they did it, and rolled for character relationships:

- **Ringiil Urshukaan:** the victim.  A mining executive people love to hate.
- **Katarin Xuan:** the murderer.  Urshukaan's mistress who he was planning to
  cast aside and abandon, penniless.  Also, Urshukaan beats her.
- **Moshe Srinivasan:** Katarin's ex-fiance.  Blames Urshukaan for stealing her
  away, and can't forgive him for hurting her.
- **Sharik Urshukaan:** Urshukaan's estranged wife.  They never divorced, so she
  stands to inherit all his wealth.
- **Martin Lukargik:** Urshukaan's personal assistant.  Urshukaan has been
  denying him promotions for years.
- **Oojan M'Banke:** leader of the Independent Belter's Association.  Urshukaan
  has been blackmailing him to sabotage a vote.
- **Bortai Narayanam:** a union organiser in Urshukaan's company.  He's
  threatened to have her family killed if she doesn't stop her unionisation
  efforts.
- **Eayukheal:** Urshukaan's hired muscle.  An alien from a culture which values
  honour above all, unwisely made an impossible promise and failed, dishonouring
  himself.  Urshukaan's been blackmailing him, with threats of making his
  dishonour public, into doing his dirty work ever since.
- **Chaijin Davis:** the rebel.  Son of a rebel leader Urshukaan had executed
  when he was in the army before retiring and becoming a mining executive.

Katarin will lie that she saw Eayukheal approaching Urshukaan's rooms around the
time of the murder.  Moshe is very uncooperative, since he doesn't want to risk
saying something which will incriminate Katarin.  Sharik is under an assumed
name and is secretive about her reasons for being on the station.  Martin is a
racist who believes Eayukheal did it, despite no evidence.  Oojan and Bortai
were overheard a few hours before the murder talking about "our common problem".
Eayukheal refuses to tell anyone what he was doing on the night of the murder,
and has been demanding access to Urshukaan's files (so he can delete the
blackmail material).  Chaijin is incredibly cooperative because he knows he's an
obvious fall guy if the police want to get this over with quickly.

I also picked out the three "incidents" the players would witness prior to the
murder:

- Moshe yelling and demanding to see Urshukaan, saying "I'll kill him for what
  he did to her, that rat bastard!"
- A grim-faced Bortai Narayanam being shown in to see Urshukaan just as the
  players are leaving.
- Urshukaan telling Eayukheal "I own you".

Finally, I spent a few evenings putting together a very detailed timeline of
what all the suspects were doing before, during, and after the murder, and
making sure that each suspect had at least 2 ways the players could learn about
them and at least 3 clues suggesting their innocence (or guilt).

This took a lot of effort, I think a worked example in the module would have
really helped here.  But it's definitely paid off.

In the session the players:

- Shot Urshukaan themselves since he refused to pay them for a job, making them
  suspect #1 (I don't even need the lazy corrupt police officer NPC at this
  point...).
- Examined the body and managed to determine the nature and time of death.
- Searched Urshukaan's rooms and found some, but not all, of the clues there.
- Interviewed a few of the suspects (not Katarin yet) and started to put
  together a timeline of events.

They've managed to rule out some of the more obvious suspects who had
water-tight alibis (as intended), and Eayukheal is giving them a hard time with
how suspicious he seems (also as intended).

Despite the timeline, I still had to improvise some things they asked about
(door access logs for Eayukheal's stateroom) and I messed up one clue (door
access logs for Katarin's stateroom), but I was able to come up with an
alternative clue to correct that mistake before it caused a problem.

Next session the players plan to interview Katarin, put some more pressure on
Sharik and Eayukheal, and keep piecing together a timeline of events.

I'm fairly confident they'll get there in the end---once you start digging there
are a bunch of clues incriminating Katarin (for example, she'll lie about seeing
Eayukheal approaching Urshukaan's suite, which can be falsified by the testimony
a security guard who Eayukheal was beating up in a different room at the
time)---but I suppose I should start to prepare for what happens if they
*don't*.

Just in case.

[Murder on Arcturus Station]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HZ6M8pGa138
[Arcturus]: https://travellermap.com/?p=23.816!-100.5!7&options=41983&style=print
[Kir]: https://travellermap.com/?p=4.763!49.5!7&options=41983&style=print&milieu=M0


## Advent of Code

It's December, which means it's once again time to write [silly optimised
Haskell solutions][] for [Advent of Code][]!

I wonder how far I'll get before getting bored this year.

[silly optimised Haskell solutions]: https://github.com/barrucadu/aoc
[Advent of Code]: https://adventofcode.com/


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [OA Event Charts](http://jrients.blogspot.com/2012/04/oa-event-charts.html)

### Software engineering

- [Building A Virtual Machine inside ChatGPT](https://www.engraved.blog/building-a-virtual-machine-inside/)
