---
date: 2023-01-08
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Foundation Trilogy][] by Isaac Asimov

  Another book I've put off re-reading for too long, I picked this up as
  inspiration for my Traveller campaign.  It's probably not very good
  inspiration---the campaign is about a new empire starting up, not an old one
  coming to an end---but a good read nevertheless.  I've never actually read the
  other Foundation books, they'll have to go on the list.

[The Foundation Trilogy]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foundation_series

## Roleplaying Games

### GoAdventuring

It's January now, a whole week into it, and when I paused this game I said we'd
re-group after the Christmas / New Year break for another session 0 and to get
things going again.

I've not organised that yet.

I am kind of playing games here (and not the fun sort), but I've decided to
*not* reach out to the players first.  I put the game on hold due to the
players' lack of interest: people missed so many sessions it was impossible to
run.  So I want some sign that they're actually interested before starting it up
again.

### Sylea Rising

We resumed this campaign this weekend, with session 4 being a survey mission
turned first-contact situation / *Alien*-style infested colony.  Or, so I'd
planned it to be.  Turns out when all the player characters have hostile
environment vacc suits, large insects aren't much of a threat.  The first
contact situation (actually "recontact", it was a long-lost human colony
reverted to barbarism) went well, the players didn't manage to convince the
locals that they weren't emissaries of the gods, but at least managed to
convince the locals that they didn't want to be *treated like* emissaries of the
gods.

I was actually going to put off running an ALIEN RPG one-shot for this group,
thinking they probably wouldn't want an Alien-inspired adventure and then an
ALIEN one-shot, but the adventure didn't feel very Alien-y at all.  So I guess
the next one-shot will be ALIEN after all.

After repairing their ship, they decided to make a beeline home, rather than do
the additional survey work they'd planned, so I was a bit caught out, but
fortunately I'd done enough prep for future sessions that I was able to
improvise something fairly easily.

All's well that ends well.

The players decided that the [lab ship][], while cool, isn't a very good vessel
for deep-space exploration, so we're going to swap that out for something else
between sessions.  I'll just start the next session after a few in-game weeks
and say that that time was spent sorting out the paperwork and finances.

Then, when they're about to head off, a Sylean Federation diplomatic ship with a
battleship escort will jump in, all outbound traffic will be halted, and the
Third Imperium will be founded.

[lab ship]: https://wiki.travellerrpg.com/Type_L_class_Laboratory_ship

### Future games?

Even though I'm enjoying my current games and have no desire to end them yet,
I'm always thinking about what to run *next*.  Recently I found, and very much
enjoyed, the Glass Cannon Network's [actual-play of Impossible Landscapes][], a
campaign for Delta Green.  I've been aware of Delta Green for a while, but never
really looked into it: I think I will, now, and I'll have to run some one-shots
to see what the players think.

Will Impossible Landscapes be the next campaign?  Maybe.  I do like the King in
Yellow.

[actual-play of Impossible Landscapes]: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLz3Be--ot61MziBtEnjmF7nFjXR166e_6


## Miscellaneous

It's another new anime season.  I think I'll be checking out Bofuri 2, Vinland
Saga 2, NieR Automata, Gokushufudou 2, The Vampire Dies in No Time 2, the Junji
Ito thing, Kaina of the Great Snow Sea, and probably a bunch of isekai rubbish.

## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Yoon-Suin 2nd Edition Kickstarter Pre-Launch](http://monstersandmanuals.blogspot.com/2023/01/yoon-suin-2nd-edition-kickstarter-pre.html)
