---
date: 2023-01-15
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 9 of [That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime][] by Fuse

  What to say?  It's a light novel: the writing isn't fantastic, but it's easy
  to read and entertaining.  I did feel that there were a couple of places in
  this volume, though, where the translation was a bit unclear.

  Firstly, there was a sentence along the lines of "as the term 'dynasty'
  implies, the Sorcerous Dynasty is ruled by a council overseen by the Empress,
  an elf who founded the nation two thousand years ago."  Which is, if anything,
  the *opposite* of what "dynasty" implies!  If there's only ever been one
  ruler, there's no dynasty.  This could just be the Japanese author thinking
  the English word "dynasty" is cool and using it incorrectly, forcing the
  translator to do the same, though.

  But later, there's another confusing bit which could definitely have been
  fixed.  In Japanese, it's common with written speech to not *explicitly* say
  who the speaker is, and to leave it to context.  Maybe it's more clear in the
  original Japanese, I'm not sure.  But there was a part with several characters
  speaking, none of them really had a distinctive "voice", and so I was jumping
  around on the page trying to figure out who said what, and having to re-read
  bits where I guessed wrong.  And ultimately it wasn't a very important
  conversation, so I felt like I expended a bunch of effort on something which
  actually didn't need to be there at all.

[That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/That_Time_I_Got_Reincarnated_as_a_Slime


## Roleplaying Games

### Cartographic Curiosities

We started this campaign up again this weekend, in which actually not that much
happened now that I think about it.

The players explored the *Tomb of the Serpent Kings* some more and unleashed a
Black Pudding, they realised it was weak to fire and that regular attacks just
caused it to split and make *more* puddings, but they didn't have enough
lamp-oil to mount a significant attack.  So they retreated back to town and did
a bunch of shopping while waiting for one of the PC's magic swords to be
identified.

I feel like I've been being a bit stingy with magic items, so I put a few cool
ones in the tomb but, well, they've not made it to the treasure rooms yet, and
the one magic item they've located so far is at the bottom of a pool of
disgusting opaque stagnant water and they haven't decided how to get that out
yet.  Just empty the pool with buckets or something!  Oh well.

We ended the session with them leaving town to go kidnap a guy for the Drune,
which is of course a totally good and not-questionable-at-all course of action.
I'm sure I can spin that into a fun moral dilemma.

### Sylea Rising

This week I didn't found the Third Imperium.  I've decided to do that in a few
weeks, to mark the end of the first part of the campaign.  Then we'll have a
little break for a week or two for something else.

Part 2 of the campaign will begin with [Flatlined][], as an old enemy makes his
first appearance in the campaign, which I'm very much looking forward to.

What we *did* do this week is start [Mission to Mithril][].

The current "mission" is to take an Ancients xenoarchaeologist to a site he's
discovered on the world of Indmen (and I'll be basing that site on elements from
the classic scenarios *Shadows* and *Twilight's Peak*), which will turn out to
be a mostly intact Ancients site with a still-functioning stargate---though
without enough juice left in its reactor to power it.

If they can power the stargate (maybe they'll hook up their ship's reactor
somehow) then it'll open a connection to a stargate in a lab in the Zhodani
Consulate, who will promptly scan the PC's minds, realise there's another
advanced starfaring human civilisation out there---but one *without* psionics
and still recovering from a large-scale collapse---and will promptly invade
through the gate.  Hopefully, the PCs will escape, and make it back to Sylean
territory to call in the Federation Navy.

If they don't manage to power the stargate then one of the NPC
xenoarchaeologists with them will suggest returning to Sylean territory to pick
up a portable fusion reactor.

Either way, they'll return to Sylean territory, and then they'll get caught up
in the founding of the Third Imperium: a nice dramatic stopping point.

But going back to today's session: I don't want any of that to happen yet.  I
want to run the one-shot some time next month.  So, I planned to put some small
scenarios like [Chariots of Fire][] and *Critical Vector* (also maybe have them
run into a pirate base when they try to do some wilderness refuelling) along the
way, and drag the journey out over three sessions or so.

I'd not planned to run *Mission to Mithril* at all, but then one player said
they were specifically asking around their contacts in the science community to
see if anyone had any jobs which they could do along the way, so I said "sure,
Dr so-and-so needs 5 tons of scientific supplies taking to Kuurashbir!", and
promptly relocated *Mission to Mithril* to Kuurashbir.  When they jumped to
Kuurashbir I called a 15 minute break, skimmed through the first half of the
module, and away we went: the session ended with the ground opening up in front
of them and a giant snow-worm bursting forth, looming over their ATV!

[Flatlined]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pwhJCQs69Jw
[Mission to Mithril]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4vULypIu1U
[Chariots of Fire]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fUN3zc2hnU0

### The one-shot?

What to run, what to run...

I've now ordered the [Delta Green][] books and a collection of scenarios, so
possibly that.  I'm interested in running *Impossible Landscapes* as a campaign
in the future, so it'd be valuable to see what the players think of the system.

Otherwise, I think it's between the Call of Cthulhu scenario [Viral][], the
Alien scenario [Chariot of the Gods][] (might be a bit long, we'll see), or
maybe, finally, something RuneQuest.

After I read the Delta Green books I'll give the players a list of options and
we'll pick something.

[Delta Green]: https://www.delta-green.com/
[Viral]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yARYswKpalw
[Chariot of the Gods]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UCcCXHpzIIo


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Yoon-Suin Kickstarter - LAUNCHED ](http://monstersandmanuals.blogspot.com/2023/01/yoon-suin-kickstarter-launched.html)
- [Puzzle Do's and Dont's + Some Examples](https://goblinpunch.blogspot.com/2023/01/puzzle-dos-and-donts-some-examples.html)
