---
date: 2023-01-22
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Return of the Black Company][] by Glen Cook

  I really liked the nonlinear storytelling in *Bleak Seasons*, it was just the
  right balance of confusing and enlightening to keep me going.  *She Is the
  Darkness* was mostly linear, but with some nonlinear parts to it.  This book
  did feel like a bit of a disconnect from the previous books, with a different
  narrator character, but that worked well too: it gave us a different
  perspective on the more familiar characters of the earlier books.  I thought
  the ending was done particularly well.
  
  Next up is *The Many Deaths of The Black Company*, the final two stories,
  which I will be starting tomorrow.

[The Return of the Black Company]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Black_Company


## Roleplaying Games

This week, some new books arrived:

![Delta Green, The Tome of Adventure Design, and Into the Wyrd and Wild](notes/227/rpg-acquisitions.jpg)

The [Delta Green][] core rulebooks, a scenario book, and the *Impossible
Landscapes* campaign.  The new edition of *The Tome of Adventure Design*, which
I got backed the kickstarter for.  And finally, a book I'd given up all hope of
ever receiving, plagued with shipping issues for like a year and a half, *Into
the Wyrd and Wild*!

I've decided that the one-shot next month will be *Delta Green*, and I've given
the players a few scenarios from the books above to choose from.  I'm quite
looking forward to this: I like the system, I like the setting, and as I've said
previously I'm thinking of running *Impossible Landscapes* as the next campaign.
So hopefully the players like it too.

*Impossible Landscapes* is a collection of linked scenarios which take place
over decades, and it's been *very hard* to resist running the first scenario as
our one-shot---but I have to, I want to do it really well with all the players
totally on-board with a more character-focussed cosmic horror game, so I don't
think it's suitable as our very first foray into *Delta Green*.

[Delta Green]: https://www.delta-green.com

### Sylea Rising

This week we finished *Mission to Mithril*, with the player characters
outgunning the mercenaries so much that they managed to get the merceneries to
pay to have their lives spared.

Next week the trip to the Ancients site on Indmen resumes, but first they're
going to have a run-in with an old enemy.  In character creation, one of the
players rolled up this event:

> Your unit is slaughtered in a disastrous battle, for which you blame your
> commander.  Gain them as an Enemy as they have you removed from the service.

The same player rolled up an enemy in the previous campaign too, and we had a
lot of fun with that NPC: Crayg, the mercenary who hated the player character's
guts.  So, a spiritual sequel to that character is returning in this campaign:
Captain Crayg of the battleship *The Archon's Fist*, who is going to show up at
the beginning of next session, delay the player characters for a few hours while
he has their ship searched, and who will make loud statements about "smugglers"
and "coercion" before finally letting them go.

Of course, it's possible they'll try to *do* something to Crayg, but this
encounter is mainly foreshadowing for [Flatlined][], as Crayg will make another
appearance at the end of part 1 of the campaign, drug them, and get them shipped
off.

[Flatlined]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pwhJCQs69Jw
