---
date: 2023-01-29
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 10 of [That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime][] by Fuse

  More of the same.  It's kind of trash, but it's entertaining trash.

[That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/That_Time_I_Got_Reincarnated_as_a_Slime

## Roleplaying Games

I somehow managed to get both games to a mini-climax this weekend, which means
I'll be running two one-shots next weekend: four systems in nine days, oof.

### Cartographic Curiosities

I did some hard thinking about the campaign this week, trying to get to the root
of *why* the wilderness exploration didn't feel as satisfying as it could.

Well, that's simple: the players run away from things a lot.  They explore a
hex, decide everything looks too dangerous to interact with, file it away for
later, and move onto the next hex.  This is because they're squishy and have had
some rough defeats.  But *why* are the player characters still so squishy?

I realised I've been too stingy with magic items.  They need more.  Given they
have a party of 5 PCs and 5 retainers with class levels, they should have
somewhere in the region of 2 to 5 magic items: but so far they only have one,
and it's only magically efficacious against fairies.

Alright, where do they get magic items?  That's easy: dungeons and the hoards of
big monsters.  Which they're avoiding... because they're so squishy... argh.

So I've decided to add more "mid-boss" enemies.  Monsters which give them a run
for their money, but which they *can* defeat after a tough fight, and which just
so happen to have a useful magic item in their lair or on their person.

I also went ahead and pre-rolled a bunch of random encounters, because I've
noticed that if I roll a random encounter at the table I'll often just improvise
it rather than roll on *all* the little tables, which leads to them being kind
of samey and not as cool as they could be.  So the next time they encounter a
wyrm, it won't just be a horible monster which can kill them with a look, it'll
be Ximmerian, a wyrm which loves riddles and will give away minor magic items if
you can answer it correctly.  I even have a list of easy riddles prepared!
There's no way I'd have been able to improvise a riddle contest off the top of
my head.  And when they first venture into the evil haunted part of the woods,
they'll find a corrupted man-eating centaur ripping apart some poor knight: the
centaur will be a tough opponent, and oh look!  In its cave there *just so
happens* to be a cool +1 mace which is especially effective against the undead!

I think there's also an element of the players being overly cautious.  So
hopefully having a few magic items under their belt will help boost that
confidence.

#### "Is everyone in this forest evil?"

The session itself went fine.  I'd prepared a few rumours for them to overhear
about a local water dragon, totally forgetting that at the end of last session
they said "ok, next time we want to research that water dragon we heard
about"---so it was kind of the water dragon episode where everything they did
somehow tied into it.  But that's fine.

Their research gave them incomplete information, which led to them concluding
the water dragon and a different water monster are the same entity, just known
by two names.  I didn't see that coming, but it worked out really well actually!

Towards the end of the session, the players handed over an almost comically
villanous guy---I should have given him a moustache to twirl---who was trying to
bring back an evil fairy lord, to a cabal of spooky druids who wanted this guy
captured.  But as they did, they overheard one of the druids---who the players
thought merely spooky at this point---mutter "we must awaken the water dragon
soon, before it is too late".

Cue one player exclaiming "is everyone in this forest evil?"

#### Next: ALIEN

I wanted to run an ALIEN one-shot at some point, and two of the players are
unavailable for the next few weeks, so I decided to pause this campaign after
that mini-climax (learning that the spooky druids want to awaken the water
dragon) for a few weeks to run *Chariot of the Gods*, the scenario from the
quickstart kit.

The scenario says it takes 4 to 5 hours.  People on the internet say it can
easily take 20 or more hours.  So I'm not sure how long this will last.  I guess
we'll see: session 1 will be next Saturday.

### Sylea Rising

This week we finished the first arc of the campaign.  The players met and were
harassed by an old enemy (now a fairly important man: the commander of a
battleship) and got some heavy foreshadowing that he's going to screw them over
in the near future.  Then they made their way to the Ancients site they knew of,
met some 300,000-year-old robots, destroyed those 300,000-year-old robots (to
prevent them from activating a self-destruct sequence for the whole site),
explored a structure which baffled them, and then they baffled *me*!

Not one, not *one*, of the players recognised my description of a stargate.

Ok, I didn't *call* it a "stargate", but I did describe a large metal circle,
twice the height of a man, which was held up and could freely rotate, with
symbols representing constellations around the rim, next to a weird control
panel covered in buttons with those same symbols which, when pressed, made the
circle rumble and rotate and the relevant symbol light up.

I even drew a representative picture!

![The metal circle with constellation symbols](notes/228/stargate.png)

Am I so bad at describing things?  Have they just never seen Stargate?

Well then, at least they'll be surprised when they manage to switch it on.

They concluded their investigation of the site by taking pictures of everything
and deciding to go fetch a better-equipped archaeological team.  They got home
without incident, and were then caught up in the founding of the Third Imperium.

The next arc will begin with their old enemy betraying them.  Who could have
seen that coming?

#### Next: Delta Green

So, with this arc done, we're playing Delta Green instead next weekend.  We've
decided on *Last Things Last*, the scenario from the quickstart kit.  Unlike
ALIEN, this actually is a short scenario, so I'm only expecting this to last a
single session, and then it's back to Traveller!

I'm going to be doing so much prep this week...


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [The Motivated Sandbox Search or 'Haystack' Campaign](http://monstersandmanuals.blogspot.com/2023/01/the-motivated-sandbox-search-or.html)
