---
date: 2023-02-02
---

## Books

No books this week, because *some fool* decided to learn two new RPG systems and
prepare two one-shots, all in the same week.

## Roleplaying Games

This week I ran part of the *Chariot of the Gods* scenario for the ALIEN RPG,
and the *Last Things Last* scenario for Delta Green.

### Alien

This was a lot of fun.  *Chariot of the Gods* is a three-act "cinematic"
scenario, which means it's meant to play out like one of the Alien films, with
the horror and action ratcheting up towards a dramatic climax, as opposed to
campaign play where things will simmer along more steadily, with occasional
bouts of xenomorphic horror.

The scenario says it can be played in 4 to 5 hours, but [people online
disagree][] (see also [this 9-hour actual play][]).  It's a bit weird that the
scenario designer was so *incredibly* wrong with the duration, but I suppose
these things happen.  Maybe they only playtested it with speedrunners.

We played for about three and a half hours, and got the first act done.  So the
whole scenario will probably take 9 or 10 hours.  We ended just after an alien
bloodburster erupted out of someone's head and escaped, with the crew fleeing
back onto their ship to regroup and recover.  No PC deaths yet, but there were a
couple of close calls.

The players managed to retrieve some valuable samples and research data, but not
an actual live xenomorph, so in act 2 (next session) the corporate agent NPC in
the crew is going to enable the self-destruct sequence on *their* ship, so that
they can't just escape and will have no option but to repair and fly back the
alien-infested ship.  Just what Weyland-Yutani wants.

Everyone liked the system.  It's fairly straightforward, we all picked it up
pretty quickly, and the personal agendas, stress / panic mechanics, and special
attack tables for the xenomorphs really make it feel like an *Alien* game, not
just a generic space-horror game.

Now I just need to think of an appropriate cliffhanger to end the next session
on...

[people online disagree]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UCcCXHpzIIo
[this 9-hour actual play]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=14ofoPtPBxE

### Delta Green

In Call of Cthulhu, you play normal people who stumble upon some sanity-blasting
situation and probably die in the process of dealing with it.  In Pulp Cthulhu,
you're action protagonists who confront the mythos with a gun in each hand and
maybe some mad science gadget.  In Delta Green... you're federal agents who
strive to keep the mythos at bay for one more day, then go home and take out the
stress of your soul-crushing job on your wife and kids.

*Last Things Last* is an introductory scenario from the quickstart rules,
designed to get new players into the world of Delta Green.  It is very short and
linear, we completed it in about two and a half hours with me adding some
embellishments, but it did its job of showing off some of the tropes that the
game is going for.

Rules-wise it's fairly similar to Call of Cthulhu, and the differences that are
there were just different *enough* to not get us mixed up.  The quickstart
covered everything we needed to get going, though the sample character sheets
are full of errors, which is kind of annoying (eg, skill values typoed as "2.#%"
instead of "20%", or even missing entirely), so I ended up having to recreate
those characters from the character creation rules... though, at least the
quickstart comes with character creation rules.

The players unintentionally sped through the scenario by revealing the monster
quite early on, and then had to quickly figure out how to deal with it before it
escaped.  It did escape, they didn't deal with it very well, one PC almost died,
and I revealed in a little vignette at the end that the monster did survive them
setting it on fire after all.  A seed for a potential future adventure.

We all liked it, though one player said that they didn't think it worked so well
for a one-shot, because a lot of Delta Green's flavour comes from its
incorporation of the everyday non-Delta Green lives of the characters, as they
have to balance their secret work with whatever it is they're doing normally,
and seeing how the characters ruin their close relationships as they drive
everyone around them away as an unhealthy coping mechanism.  I asked if they'd
be up for a campaign in the future, and everyone was on board!

So after the current Traveller campaign, we'll likely be playing *Impossible
Landscapes*.

Mission accomplished.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [What it Means to Master a Game](https://theangrygm.com/master-a-game/)

### Software engineering

- [Intercepting t.co links using DNS rewrites](https://djharper.dev/post/2023/01/29/intercepting-t.co-links-using-dns-rewrites/)
