---
date: 2023-02-26
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Many Deaths of the Black Company][] by Glen Cook

  And that's it, the series is over.  I liked the different style, the focus on
  what's more of an underground resistance than a mercenary company.

  It's been interesting reading the books all close together, since the first
  came out in 1984 and the last in 2000, and you can *really* see the quality
  improve as the series progresses.  People say the opening of Malazan is rough,
  but I enjoyed *Gardens of the Moon*, whereas I'd probably have put down *The
  Black Company* if I didn't know it was the inspiration for that sort of thing.
  I'm going to have to check out *Port of Shadows*, which collects some of Glen
  Cook's short Black Company stories.

[The Many Deaths of the Black Company]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Black_Company


## Roleplaying Games

### Cartographic Curiosities

No game this week, in fact the next session isn't going to be for a while due to
player availability[^players].  So I'm taking the time to do lots of prep that I
really should have done previously:

[^players]: I think it's important for the health of the group that the game
    runs as often as possible.  Cancelling or rearranging because just one or
    two players can't make it just creates an expectation that the game is
    scheduled around the players, and soon creates a situation where the game
    becomes impossible to schedule, as nobody treats game-time as sacred.

    However, two of the five players are unavailable for several sessions in a
    row.  If it was only one or two sessions, it's unfortunate, but they'd just
    miss out.  But for an extended absence of, nearly, half the party, I think
    pausing and doing something else (like running Alien) is the better option.

- Coming up with rumour lists (the campaign book has these, but they're
  incomplete).
- Coming up with job lists for all the major NPCs they're on friendly terms
  with.
- Going through past session notes and identifying any knock-on effects that
  should happen (eg, new inhabitants moving into the now-unguarded burial mound
  of Sir Chyde).
- Actually reading the bits and pieces of GM advice I've found or acquired over
  the years, and thinking about how I can apply them.

On that last point, I think the advice on random encounters from [Electric
Bastionland][] is fantastic.  It suggests you come up with 6 encounters, make
one of them incredibly dangerous, and then make sure each one meets the
following three criteria:

- The players should be motivated to act.
- It should have the potential to permanently change the characters.
- It should be memorable and evocative.

It seems so obvious when put so plainly!

I had previously rolled up 10 random encounters for each region of Dolmenwood.
Upon reading that advice, I immediately went and cut those down to the most
interesting 6.  I then tweaked them to make sure I hit all three notes.

Even something simple, like changing an encounter where the players see a troll
dragging away three freshly-killed victims, to making one of those victims still
barely alive, gives the players a strong reason to act where previously they may
have decided to give it a wide berth.

When we finally get to play again, the game should be a lot more fun.

[Electric Bastionland]: https://bastionlandpress.com/products/electric-bastionland-hardback-book

### Sylea Rising

This week we had a second session 0, since the direction of the campaign has
*wildly* changed from what we talked about at the beginning, and we decided that
we're going to split the party.

Two of the original PCs, their NPC crewmember, and one of the new PCs are going
on a crazy year-long adventure to get back home.  I guess they just hired the
new guy?  One of the PCs plans to come back (which makes it a *two* year journey
for them, I don't think we'll see the end of it this campaign).  The remaining
PCs (one original, two new) are staying here in the new place, getting up to
their own shenanigans.

I'm not sure if this has doubled or halved my workload... on the one hand, twice
the characters; but on the other hand, this is a *perfect* set-up for the
episodic jump-straight-to-the-action sort of campaign I wanted to run!  The
Going-Home Team are going to have wacky space adventures, the Staying-Here Team
don't have a ship any more so they're going to have wacky planet adventures.
Even better, the Staying-Here Team are a bunch of crooks who work for an NPC
fixer (a contact one of the new PCs made in character creation), so I can give
them really *any* job and it'll fit.  And if one group starts to feel a bit
stale, or I'm having a hard time coming up with ideas, we just switch to the
other group.

Excited to see where this goes.  Next session is the Going-Home Team, but after
that I think the focus will be on the Staying-Here Team for a while.


## obsidian.md

This week I've been playing around with using [Obsidian][] for note-taking,
specifically RPG note-taking.

My current approach to notes isn't very good: almost everything is in the
session notes.  So if I want to, say, look through all my notes on an NPC, there
isn't one place for that, it's just scattered around.  Some things get pulled
out and centralised, like major setting details, but most don't.

Now, this is fairly good for *running* games.  I can just have the notes for
that session open, and it's got everything I need.  I don't need to scroll
around very much.  But it makes *preparing* for games fairly hard, especially as
the number of sessions increases.  It's easy to lose track of things from more
than a few sessions ago, and I end up repeating things a lot.

I think this is probably a major factor in why I tend to rely on published
campaign material.  I can come up with adventures that last a few sessions, but
my note-taking approach makes longer-term structure difficult.

So I've been giving Obsidian a go.

I started by importing my Cartographic Curiosities session notes, and then began
pulling out locations, factions, and NPCs into their own notes which get
crosslinked.  I tried out having "quest" notes, but ended up deciding that it
wasn't a useful concept: quests are either missions (which really belong to an
NPC or faction) or adventures (which belong to locations).

I also set up a couple of notes with an overview of the campaign, some random
generators, rumours, random encounters, and exploration progress, to make a GM
screen of sorts.  It looks like this:

![My Obsidian "GM screen".](notes/232/obsidian.png)

And I'm pretty happy with it!

The thing that's always turned me off campaign management tools before is that
they're usually both clunky to use and opinionated in how you structure things.
Obsidian, however, is neither of those.  It's polished, and super flexible.
This let me spend a few evenings playing around with finding something that
works for me.

It's also got an array of impressive community-developed plugins.

For example, that "Find Crookhorn bases in the Nagwood" bullet point on the GM
Overview isn't something I've put there myself.  No.  It's actually on the Lady
Harrowmoor NPC page, and is pulled into this page with the [Obsidian Dataview
plugin][].  So when I'm writing up my notes after a session, I just put stuff
where it belongs (on the Lady Harrowmoor page in this case), and when I'm
running a session, I've got all the in-progress missions visible at once.

For another example, that map of Dolmenwood is an interactive map with markers
that link to my location pages, created with the [Obsidian Leaflet plugin][].
And on the location pages, I have location-specific rumours.  Next session will
be starting with the party in Fort Vulgar, so when they go to the tavern I can
just open the Fort Vulgar page and pick out some rumours for them to overhear.

Also note that some of the general rumours in the middle tab are crossed out.
That's because I'm experimenting with just *not deleting anything*.  If
something is no longer relevant going forwards, I'll just cross it out.  This
gives me *some* history, without needing to go through all my session notes.
Will that be useful?  Probably not very often, but it's little effort, so why
not?

I was only "trying it out", but honestly after spending a week fiddling with it,
I'm sold.  I'm going to import my Sylea Rising notes next week, and expect it to
be very useful now that I'm tracking two separate parties which will soon be
separated in time.

[Obsidian]: https://obsidian.md/
[Obsidian Dataview plugin]: https://github.com/blacksmithgu/obsidian-dataview
[Obsidian Leaflet plugin]: https://github.com/valentine195/obsidian-leaflet-plugin


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Non-Lazy DMs use Obsidian for D&D](https://nicolevanderhoeven.com/blog/20210930-non-lazy-dms-use-obsidian-for-dnd/)
- [How I use Obsidian for D&D - Player's Edition](https://nicolevanderhoeven.com/blog/20210809-dnd-obsidian-player/)
- [Monsters and Treasures in the B/X Dungeon](https://spriggans-den.com/2022/05/20/frequency-of-fights-in-b-x/)
- [New B/X Class: The Gothic Villain](http://udan-adan.blogspot.com/2019/03/new-bx-class-gothic-villain.html)
