---
date: 2023-03-05
---

## Books

No books this week.


## Roleplaying Games

### Sylea Rising

This week we were down one player, so rather than start stuff with the new group
of PCs, we started the journey home for the old group of PCs.  I based the
session on the short scenario [A Dagger at Efate][], but reskinned to be in
Vargr space and tied it into the local politics which the players were aware of.

One PC died, but it was one of the new PCs we rolled up last week.  They were
also pretty inept as a character, and we promoted the much more competent NPC
pilot to full PC instead.  So not terribly sad.

Next week will be the first mission of the new PCs.  I want this part of the
campaign to be more player-directed, whereas the going-home PCs will be more
adventure-of-the-week.  So I'm going to bring in all their NPC contacts---and
have them all be very opinionated about what they want and how the PCs can play
into that---over the next couple of sessions, in contrast to my usual approach
of slowly introducing them over time.

[A Dagger at Efate]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SJhJLbqDeiw

### Future games

Coming up some time next month, we have our next one-shot.  It'll be a short
dungeon crawl using Old School Essentials, to introduce that system to the
players.  This is in aid of our eventual future megadungeon campaign, which I
think will be *The Halls of Arden Vul*.

I was also considering *Dwarrowdeep* or *Barrowmaze*, but I read some
less-than-glowing reviews of *Dwarrowdeep* and it's moved firmly *off* the
priority list for now.  *Barrowmaze* is still a strong "maybe", but why go for a
"maybe" when I've been watching an [actual play of Arden Vul][] that makes it
look very fun?

But I may be getting ahead of myself a bit...

After Sylea Rising---which is still happening!---we're going to play the Delta
Green campaign *Impossible Landscapes*.  And then after *that*, will be the
megadungeon.

When am I going to run all these games?

I haven't told the players yet, but I'm thinking of ending Sylea Rising around
session 24.  That's 6 months of weekly sessions, which is a good run.  This week
was session 11, so in one month we'll have a one-shot, then we'll have two more
months of campaign, and then we're done.  I might change my mind on this, but it
feels good to me right now.

So in 3 months, we'll be starting *Impossible Landscapes*.  I've not read that
fully yet, so I don't know how long that'll last... but there's another option,
too.

### Running three campaigns at once?

The advantage of running something like a megadungeon is that it doesn't need
much prep work week-to-week, you just need to make the dungeon react to whatever
the players got up to in the last session, and review the areas that the next
session is likely to cover.

That could work well for an open table campaign.

I could run *three* games a week: Cartographic Curiosities, *Impossible
Landscapes*, and *The Halls of Arden Vul*.  I know a bunch of people who play
RPGs that I don't currently play with.  My players know yet more.  Get them all
in a Discord server and have them decide when they want to go into the dungeon,
with a rotating cast of characters.  You play when you can make it.  Super
low-commitment.  We could also use this to try out new players who might be good
members of the other groups.

I need to think more about it, and talk to the players, but it's appealing.

On the other hand... doing a megadungeon crawl with a consistent group of
players has its appeal too.  With an open table, you need to limit dungeon
delves to one (or at most two) sessions, so that one group of players being in
the dungeon doesn't either block others or cause time-travel paradoxes (since
both groups are playing at separate real-world times, despite it being
overlapping in-game time), which means introducing mechanics like "roll to see
if you escape the dungeon" if the session ends before the party makes it out.
The tone changes.  Perhaps a West Marches game would be better?

Ah, so many ideas...

[actual play of Arden Vul]: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLtBYin1uOBmCs1hSQQqxesYPbod7Y5Cfq


## obsidian.md

I've now fully migrated my RPG notes to [Obsidian][], and used it to run this
week's Sylea Rising game, which was a nice validation of the approach.  It
worked well, definitely an improvement over how I was doing things.

I imported all my previous campaign notes too.  I haven't given these the full
breakdown-and-hyperlinking treatment, but I've at least broken top-level
sections into their own notes.

I've *also* migrated off [Wiki.js][], which I was using to keep track of some
household things like recipes and shopping lists.  Why have two note-taking
systems when one works?  I'm considering migrating some of my more personal
memos, like [the book wishlist][], into Obsidian too.  Having that sort of thing
online isn't useful to anyone, not even me.

[Obsidian]: https://obsidian.md/
[Wiki.js]: https://js.wiki/
[the book wishlist]: https://memo.barrucadu.co.uk/book-wishlist.html


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Encounter Checklist](https://www.prismaticwasteland.com/blog/encounter-checklist)
- [Open Table Manifesto](https://thealexandrian.net/wordpress/38643/roleplaying-games/open-table-manifesto)
