---
date: 2023-04-02
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Delta Green: Impossible Landscapes][] from Arc Dream Publishing

  Wow.  This is going to be a wild ride.

- Volume 15 of [Overlord][] by Kugane Maruyama

  I enjoyed this, but felt it was a little... short.  It's got fewer pages than
  the previous couple of volumes, and not that much happened.  Not really sure
  why this story arc is split across two volumes.

  Something I am looking forward to seeing is the resolution of an old bit of
  foreshadowing, a suggestion that perhaps Albedo and Demiurge are beginning to
  doubt Lord Ainz---which doesn't come across in the anime at all so far---as in
  this volume Albedo voiced the opinion that perhaps Lord Ainz was just making
  something up as he went along, and she thought some of his praise of her was
  sarcastic.  It'll be interesting to see how Albedo proceeds, as she knows that
  publicly questioning Lord Ainz without getting the other guardians on her side
  first is tantamount to suicide.

  We know that other players have come from Yggdrasil before, but where are they
  now?  Did *their* NPC companions eventually realise they weren't gods, and
  struck them down?

[Delta Green: Impossible Landscapes]: https://shop.arcdream.com/collections/role-playing-games/products/delta-green-impossible-landscapes
[Overlord]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overlord_(novel_series)


## Roleplaying Games

### Schedule changes

This week I and the Sylea Rising players had a chat about the campaign, and
decided to end it even sooner than planned.  So now the plan is:

- 04-09: final session of Sylea Rising
- 04-16: Old School Essentials *Tomb Robbers of the Crystal Frontier*
- 04-23, 04-30, 05-07: we'll figure it out at the time, maybe boardgames or something
- 05-14, 05-21, 05-28: Alien *Chariot of the Gods*
- 06-04: no session
- 06-11: session 0 for Delta Green *Impossible Landscapes*

We'd previously planned for Sylea Rising to continue until the end of May, so
this is a pretty drastic change.  We don't even have plans for three of the
sessions!

I decided to broach the topic and suggest ending the campaign early for two
reasons.  Firstly, since deciding on the start date of *Impossible Landscapes*,
I'd found myself counting down the Sylea Rising sessions, thinking of them as *a
hurdle to get through* rather than *a thing fun in its own right*.  That's how I
started to feel when we played *Wicked Ones*, and it's not good.  Secondly, one
of the players---the player most keen to do Traveller in the first place---was
pretty quiet for two sessions in a row, they brushed it off when I checked in
with them, but I suspected that they were getting a bit bored of Traveller as
well.

And I was right.

Nobody had really wanted to say anything, thinking that everybody else was
having fun, but the general feeling was that we'd played a *lot* of Traveller
over the last year and a half, and that it was probably a mistake to jump into
Sylea Rising so soon after we ended our previous *Pirates of Drinax* campaign
(which itself kind of fizzled out rather than reaching a satisfying conclusion).
We all like space opera, but we need variety too.

Communication is important.  Nobody wants a dull game with no investment which
kind of limps towards a conclusion.  Better to end things sooner and do
something quick and easy before the next campaign starts.

### Sylea Rising

So this week was the finale for the Vargr Gang.

We wrapped up the psion-drug plotline, which I had intended to last for two
sessions but the players essentially speed-ran the last few parts of the
scenario, including deciding to take combat drugs and *sprint* through the mad
scientist's space lab to find him before the drugs wore off.

Can't really do a space-dungeon crawl if the players aren't crawling.

And then they killed the mad scientist in the very first round of combat, before
he even knew they were there and could turn on his combat robot.  Oh well.  They
had fun.  I can bring out a mad scientist monologue in another game, I suppose.

So next week will be a totally unexpected session for the Imperium Gang!  Maybe
*Chariots of Fire*, since I decided not to combine that with *Rule of Man
Commemorative* in the previous session.


## Miscellaneous

I watched season 2 of [The Boys][] this week.  I liked how the racist character
called Stormfront who whipped people into a frenzy through memes was a *literal*
Nazi who had been alive since the early 1900s.  Well, season 3 next.  Time to
see what Homelander did to annoy the right-wing viewers.

It's also time for the new anime to start.  I've got a few things I'll
definitely be checking out, like the second seasons of Ancient Magus Bride and
G-witch, but I still need to give the season chart a proper look-through.

[The Boys]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Boys_(TV_series)


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [How to Handle Parley as an OSR DM](https://goblinpunch.blogspot.com/2023/03/how-to-handle-parley-as-osr-dm.html)

### Software engineering

- [LenPEG](https://www.dangermouse.net/esoteric/lenpeg.html)
