---
date: 2023-04-09
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The King in Yellow][] by Robert W. Chambers

  Such a great collection of stories, other than the utterly forgettable ones
  which don't mention the King in Yellow at all.

[The King in Yellow]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_King_in_Yellow


## Roleplaying Games

### Cartographic Curiosities

This week the players managed to gain a strong advantage in a fight with a
cunning plan, I got to whip out some of my pre-rolled random encounters, and
nobody promised their soul to an ancient forest spirit.  A great success on all
counts.

At the start of the session, the players were facing down a bunch of Crookhorns
(think "orcs" but goatfolk) who slightly outnumbered them, and who were
demanding money.  Now, the Dolmenwood Minstrel class can fascinate mortals by
playing music and singing, and one of the players is a minstrel.  They'd also
picked up an NPC minstrel who had decided to accompany the party until he got
back home.  So the two minstrels approached the Crookhorns being all "now now
friends, there's no need to be hasty, let's resolve this nonviolently" and began
playing their music.  This ensnared most of the Crookhorns, who proceeded to
approach the minstrels (their friends who hadn't realised the situation yelling
things like "get 'em boys" and "make sure to take that shiny lute!"), whereupon
they were jumped by the rest of the party, who essentially gained a one-round
advantage over the fascinated Crookhorns.

After a couple of rounds enough of them had been killed or blinded (the Light
spell is intense in older editions), and the rest fled into the forest, leaving
the party to continue exploring.

I had planned for the party to find the lair of a corrupted centaur, with a
shiny magical mace inside, but they decided to retreat from the dark spooky
woods and explore elsewhere.  So instead I brought out two of my pre-rolled
random encounters: a cave full of giant fire beetles with something shiny inside
(they decided to come back to that later) and a cottage full of runaway teenage
druid girls who have *had enough* of their fathers introducing them to nice
boys.

The druid girls patched up their wounds and shared some information in exchange
for stories of life outside the Dolmenwood, and once recovered the party
returned to town to *finally* level up.

Will they ever return to the dungeon they started exploring several sessions
ago?  Will they ever find the other dungeon I've put on the map just beyond the
bordeer of where they've explored near town?  Or will they just keep heading
further and further out without ever returning to anything?  Who knows!

I should probably add another dungeon or two.

### Sylea Rising

Today we wrapped up the campaign.  I ran the Traveller4 scenario *The Sleepers*,
in which the players find a long-abandoned Second Imperium cryogenics facility
called "A Better Tomorrow", which has become a holy site for a local tribe who
believe that the world will end if the sleeping gods within are ever woken up.
Along the way the players get to interact with some insane caretaker-robots and
rescue two sleepers from imminent cryo-pod failure.

It was a good ending, really got back to the roots of what I wanted this
campaign to be about: exploring ancient and weird locations, and figuring out
artefacts from before the Long Night.

Despite being for a different edition of Traveller, it was straightforward to
run.  One of the strengths of Traveller is that converting material between
editions (in most cases) is really easy.

We wrapped up with a short epilogue for each character.  It'll probably be a
couple of years before we return to Traveller, but it was fun while it lasted.

Next up: [Tomb Robbers of the Crystal Frontier][]!

[Tomb Robbers of the Crystal Frontier]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pUkPt9VcsWw


## Miscellaneous

[What-Cha][], my usual loose-leaf tea shop is great and I never fail to spend my
monthly tea budget on nice things, but it's been out of puerh for a while.  So
I'm branching out.  Trying a few other places.  Increasing the variety.

To start with, I've ordered two types of puerh from [Yee On Tea][].  I've heard
good things about [Yunnan Sourcing][] and [Taiwan Sourcing][] too.  I'll report
back after it arrives.

[What-Cha]: https://what-cha.com/
[Yee On Tea]: https://yeeonteaco.com/
[Yunnan Sourcing]: https://yunnansourcing.com/
[Taiwan Sourcing]: https://taiwanoolongs.com/


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Lessons from West Marches - A guide to improving West Marches play](https://old.reddit.com/r/DMAcademy/comments/adn178/lessons_from_west_marches_a_guide_to_improving/)

### Miscellaneous

- [Collections: How to Polis 101, Part IIc: The Courts](https://acoup.blog/2023/04/07/collections-how-to-polis-101-part-iic-the-courts/)
