---
date: 2023-04-16
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Delta Green: Handler's Guide][] from Arc Dream Publishing

  There is a lot here.  Most of the book is metaplot (a history of Delta Green
  and similar organisations, and their conflicts and activities, even bringing
  in real-world conspiracy theories as "real" things in the setting), a bestiary
  of alien horrors, and a collection of spells.  Which is very cool and would be
  a lot of help if I were writing my own campaign, but I'm not: I'm going to run
  *Impossible Landscapes*.  So, not very useful.  Yet.  Hopefully in the future.
  It was all good for getting a feel for the sort of setting and game Delta
  Green is going for, though, and there was some campaign-running advice which
  will transfer.

[Delta Green: Handler's Guide]: https://shop.arcdream.com/collections/role-playing-games/products/delta-green-handlers-guide-hardback


## Roleplaying Games

### Tomb Robbers of the Crystal Frontier

Alas, the three new players couldn't make it, and two of the regular players
also had to skip on short notice.  Thankfully, one current player and one
ex-player were able to attend, so we still got to play (with them each running
two PCs).  It was fun, but as a means to induct new members into the group, it
was an abject failure.  Oh well, maybe next time will be better.

Heaping more misfortune onto the pile, one of the regular players who had to
miss this session said that he'd have to miss *every* session until at least the
end of next month, and may not be able to play even after that.  So I'm assuming
the worst case for now, that he's out of the group.

Which means there are only two regular players left in the group.  That is not
enough for most games.  It's a bit of a crisis situation, the group desperately
needs some new committed players or it may just fizzle out in a matter of weeks.

But how *do* you find new players for an RPG group?


## Miscellaneous

I made some changes to [bookdb][] this week, for the first time in a while.
Since I'm getting more print-on-demand books these days[^pod], and those tend to
have EANs rather than ISBNs, I added EAN validation.  I also changed it so book
codes have to be one of three formats:

- `isbn-` and then a valid ISBN10 or ISBN13 code
- `ean-` and then a valid EAN8 or EAN13 code
- `x-` and then anything

Whereas before it was totally freeform, but if the code was a 10- or 13-digit
number it'd be validated as an ISBN.

Then, I was so disgusted by the state of the code that I refactored it a bunch
(only breaking it twice in the process), and even added a few tests for the ISBN
and EAN validation, [using Hypothesis][], which is one of those tools I've
always wanted to use but never had reason to.  In fact, this is possibly the
first time I've ever written Python tests.

[^pod]: Though, these are RPG books from DriveThruRPG.  If the group falls apart
  I guess that'll slow down my RPG spending...

[bookdb]: https://bookdb.barrucadu.co.uk/search
[using Hypothesis]: https://github.com/barrucadu/bookdb/blob/master/tests/test_codes.py


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Non-Euclidean Geography](https://goblinpunch.blogspot.com/2016/09/non-euclidean-geography.html)

### Miscellaneous

- [Collections: How to Polis, Part III: People and Gods Beyond the Politai](https://acoup.blog/2023/04/14/collections-how-to-polis-part-iii-people-and-gods-beyond-the-politai/)
