---
date: 2023-05-07
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Elric of Melniboné and Other Stories][] by Michael Moorcock

  Elric!  One of the classics of sword & sorcery!  I've wanted to read it for so
  long!  But it's always been out of print or out of stock, I'd all but given up
  hope.  Then, on Monday, on a whim I decided to go to Foyles on Charing Cross
  Road.  I'd already spent my discretionary budget for the month (immediately
  after payday, as always happens), so I wasn't planning on getting anything, I
  was just going to browse.
  
  And there, in the fantasy section, to my great surprise, was a shelf *full* of
  Elric books.  It seems Gollancz has decided to republish *all* of Michael
  Moorcock's stuff!
  
  Well, I could hardly pass that up.  I got them all.  And the Corum books.  And
  The Eternal Champion.  I'll get the rest some other time, I have enough to
  work on for now.
  
  The book is basically everything I'd hoped for.  Some really classic fantasy
  stuff.  Order, chaos, sorcery, magic swords, dream-quests... I devoured it in
  two nights.

[Elric of Melniboné and Other Stories]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elric_of_Melnibon%C3%A9_(novel)


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Well, we've given up on finding new players for now.

So it's just me, two regular players, and a couple of people who are
occasionally around but can't commit to anything regular.  So *Impossible
Landscapes* is out.  It's a shame, we were all really looking forward to it, but
I'd rather wait and run it with four players in the future than run it with two
players now.

This week we didn't play an RPG.  We played *Spirit Island* instead, which was
pretty fun.  Afterwards I raised the elephant in the room, we talked about
possible alternative campaigns, and have decided that next week will be session
0 for *The Halls of Arden Vul*.

I think this is a good fit because when the flaky players are around, or if
someone new wants to try things out, they can just take over an NPC retainer
(since it won't just be two PCs delving the dungeon on their own).  There's no
overarching plot, just an overarching location, so it's easy for people to drop
in and out according to their availability.  And if someone new who can't commit
to a regular game joins the group to play occasionally, they might end up liking
it enough that they *make* time for a regular game.

*Impossible Landscapes*, we'll get to you one day!

So, uh, now I just need to prepare for a huge megadungeon I'd not expected to
run until next year, in the next fortnight.  So I've been reading volume 1
(which covers the lower-level areas and is likely to be the subject of months of
play), volume 4 (which covers all the peoples, places, items, and lore), and
volume 5 (the maps) and hope to have at least a broad understanding of all that
content by the time we start.  Week to week I'll read through the material I
expect the next session to cover, but I'd like at least a rough overview before
we start.

Of course, one of the advantages of a megadungeon is that prep is pretty light:
the author's done all that for you.  You just need to run it as written and,
after every session, think about how the players have changed the status quo.
But mapping of locations, finding of monster stats, creation of major factions
and NPCs, is largely done for you.  It does look like I'll need to make maps for
some of the adventure sites outside of the dungeon proper, but many of those
sites are hidden and will take time for the players to find, so if I don't have
it all ready by session 1 it's no big deal.

It'll be fun!


## Stable Diffusion

I've been playing around with [Stable Diffusion][] (via [Easy Diffusion][]) this
week and it is pretty amazing.  Back in March, I generated [some character
portraits with DALL-E][] and they're *alright*, it's cool to see a computer
making art, but they're all pretty basic.

However, I had seen really good AI art, so I assumed I just didn't know how to
use DALL-E properly.  After all, DALL-E is OpenAI's cutting edge proprietary
model, it costs actual money to use (beyond a small monthly allowance), so it
must be near the top, right?

Reader, I was wrong.  So, so, wrong.  Stable Diffusion is so much better than
DALL-E.

![A mushroom person villager, generated with Stable Diffusion.](notes/242/villager.jpeg)

The images are just... well, go check out [my Twitter thread sharing a bunch][].

It's free.  It runs locally.  It takes mere minutes.  I'm no "prompt engineer",
I'm sure there are tricks I don't know to generate the *really* good stuff, but
just what I'm able to puzzle out myself is leagues ahead of what I was getting
out of DALL-E.

The age of bad NPC portraits is *over!*

[Stable Diffusion]: https://github.com/CompVis/stable-diffusion
[Easy Diffusion]: https://stable-diffusion-ui.github.io/
[some character portraits with DALL-E]: notes/236.html#tomb-robbers-of-the-crystal-frontier
[my Twitter thread sharing a bunch]: https://twitter.com/barrucadu/status/1655155050975567872


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [Google "We Have No Moat, And Neither Does OpenAI"](https://www.semianalysis.com/p/google-we-have-no-moat-and-neither)
