---
date: 2023-05-21
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Elric: the Fortress of the Pearl][] by Michael Moorcock

  I've got to say, I find the order in which these books are organised a little
  weird.  I think it's in-universe chronological order, rather than publication
  order.  So the reader is just kind of dropped into things without having any
  context.  I had the same feeling with the previous book, which starts with
  *the script of a graphic novel prequel* which was a confusing start for
  someone who didn't know anything about Elric beyond what's made its way into
  general nerd culture.
  
  I'm still able to follow it, and it's all good and enjoyable, but it does feel
  like I'm missing references and having to infer background details that would
  be more apparent were the books arranged in publication order instead.  So
  this might be a series I end up re-reading to fully appreciate.

- [Three Hearts and Three Lions][] by Poul Anderson

  This is, as far as I'm aware, *the* origin of some key fantasy tropes, like
  law vs chaos, regenerating trolls, and paladins (at least the modern
  formulation of paladins).  So I was mostly going into this looking for that
  original context, but thankfully I also got a good story out of it as well!
  
  It's pretty short, I read it in a single day, and yet it's got so much
  atmosphere packed into it.  It's got a very fairytale feel, I am certainly
  going to draw upon it for my Dolmenwood campaign.  It also heavily references
  the *Matter of France* which I---being a poorly read and uncultured
  swine---didn't pick up on until the protagonist made the connection.  This
  isn't the first time I've read some fantasy which has directly referenced
  Charlemagne and his paladins, so I think I'll have to add those old classic
  tales to my reading list.
  
  I thought it was pretty funny how the whole book up to near the very end is
  the build up towards this big war between the forces of law and chaos, and
  then the war itself is resolved in a couple of sentences: the protagonist gets
  the magic sword he's been searching for, regains his memories, crushes the
  fairy armies, and saves the world.  The story is the journey, not the
  destination.

[Elric: the Fortress of the Pearl]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elric_of_Melnibon%C3%A9
[Three Hearts and Three Lions]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three_Hearts_and_Three_Lions


## Roleplaying Games

Once again, I've been looking at my RPG book wishlist and wondering what to get
next.  I bought *The Halls of Arden Vul* months ahead of schedule (which turned
out to be a good thing), so there's some space in my budget.

Because I have two big campaigns running right now, I'm leaning towards
collections of one-shots and short adventures for systems I plan to run in the
future, rather than more published campaigns or sourcebooks.  I like to break up
a campaign with the occasional one-shot.

So right now I'm looking at:

- *Destroyer of Worlds* and *Heart of Darkness* for the ALIEN RPG;
- *Fear's Sharp Little Needles* and *The Things We Leave Behind* for Call of Cthulhu; and
- *Black Sites* and *A Night at the Opera* for Delta Green.

No Traveller or OSR books for the foreseeable future.  I've picked up a lot of
those over the last couple of years, and I don't think I really need any more
for now (beyond the Dolmenwood sourcebooks and adventures when the kickstarter
happens).

### Dolmenwood

[Last time][] the whole party (except one retainer) got petrified by a basilisk
and we decided to pick up with a *new* party of adventurers, recruited by this
retainer to go free the original party.

There's been a lot of talk since then.

One player decided to drop out, rather than roll up a new PC.  They weren't
really happy with the difficulty of the game, and it's something they've
mentioned before so this isn't a new issue: they've played for nearly a year,
but it's not for them.  That's sad, but fair enough.  Not every game is for
every player, and they gave it a more than fair try.

This then prompted a *long* group conversation about difficulty, genre
expectations, the OSR philosophy in general, game systems, what sorts of games
people like, whether we should just end the campaign here with this TPK and do
something else...

I think we've got past the crisis point though, we're sticking with Dolmenwood,
we're not changing games entirely.  But the group is now leaning towards having
a little time-skip and introducing a new party of PCs who aren't connected to
the previous PCs at all.  They might hear a rumour that some adventurers went
into the woods a few months back and only one returned, raving about a basilisk
who killed his friends, but that's it.  These new characters aren't being
introduced specifically to go and save the old PCs.

So if we're changing things up from mapping the Dolmenwood, what next?

I don't know.

There have been a lot of good ideas, since the players are all now familiar
enough with the setting to have specific agendas they'd like to pursue.  I'm
going to give it a few more days and then nudge the players towards making a
decision, so I can get something prepared.

But I'm glad we're not leaving Dolmenwood behind.

[Last time]: notes/243.html#cartographic-curiosities

### The Halls of Arden Vul

The players made their first foray into the caverns beneath the ruined city,
after figuring out the puzzle at the Pyramid of Thoth which reveals the stairway
down.  They got threatened and extorted by halflings, poked around a bunch of
rooms, defeated a few skeletons and zombies, and didn't exactly find much in the
way of monetary treasure but they found a few scrolls and potions which I'm sure
will be useful in future delves.

I'm giving additional XP for "feats of exploration" (see [my house rules][]), so
they did end up gaining a few hundred experience points when they made it back
to the inn.  This week they:

- Solved a puzzle
- Confirmed a rumour's veracity
- Explored a bunch of rooms across two dungeon levels
- Creatively dealt with some zombies
- Found a magically concealed room

Which is worth enough XP to get them 12% of the way to level 2.  It's something,
but levelling up *just* from exploration isn't really practical, so next time
they're planning to go visit the nearby town to stock up on supplies, then head
back into the dungeon for a more serious delve.

[my house rules]: notes/243/arden-vul-house-rules.pdf


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Dolmenwood Progress Update — May 2023](https://necroticgnome.com/blogs/news/dolmenwood-progress-update-may-2023)
- [Dolmenwood Player's Book — New Material](https://necroticgnome.com/blogs/news/dolmenwood-players-book-new-material)
- [Why Telegraphing Danger Improved My DMing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i4ZrTOexNJk)

### Software engineering

- [Uncensored Language Models](https://erichartford.com/uncensored-models)

### Miscellaneous

- [Comb jelly ancestor may have been first animal to branch from tree of life](https://www.science.org/content/article/comb-jelly-ancestor-may-have-been-first-animal-branch-tree-life)
