---
date: 2023-05-28
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Elric: The Sailor on the Seas of Fate][] by Michael Moorcock

  Which includes the *very first* Elric story: finally, I know how it all began!
  It's kind of a stark contrast, going from one of the later-written stories
  which features Elric and three other incarnations of the Eternal Champion
  (Erekose, Corum, and Hawkmoon) to the very first story, and seeing the change
  of writing style.  While the first story was *good*, the writing is definitely
  worse than the later ones.
  
  Now in Elric's journey I've got to the point where the war between Law and
  Chaos properly starts (with Elric summoning Arioch of Chaos and breaking some
  ancient pact) and to the destruction of Melnibone (by Elric), so now I'm
  looking forward to some proper cosmic struggles.
  
  Also, I've come to appreciate how apt the term "sword and sorcery" is for the
  genre.  Elric has two tools---his magic sword and his sorcery---and he solves
  *all* problems with them.

[Elric: The Sailor on the Seas of Fate]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elric_of_Melnibon%C3%A9


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

No dungeoneering this week: the party went to the nearby town to sell a gem and
some scrolls they found in their previous delve, and then spent the rest of the
session searching around in the ruined city for that other entrance they think
they've found.

They didn't exactly find what they were looking for, but they did find a couple
of other interesting features, which could lead them deeper into the dungeon
more quickly than I expected, so I'm reading up on levels 5 and 6 in
preparation.

This is great, I really like how interconnected Arden Vul is: the main entrance
everyone knows about actually takes you straight down from the surface to level
3 of the dungeon, the surface entrance to level 1 is harder to find.  And from
level 3 there are passages leading to the surface, to several different dungeon
levels, and to various sub-levels.  Some passages are easier to find, and so
fairly well known to the adventuring community; others are less well known (or
even totally unknown) and so knowing where they are gives you some advantage.
But that advantage comes with risk, because the less well known (and less
well-travelled) parts of the dungeon are more likely to have wandering
unintelligent monsters!

Despite being a dungeon, one of the most constrained environments imaginable,
sessions are still really unpredictable.  And that's fun.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [(Re-)Running the Megadungeon](https://thealexandrian.net/wordpress/5/roleplaying-games/re-running-the-megadungeon)
- [(Re-)Running the Megadungeon – Part 2: Restocking the Dungeon](https://thealexandrian.net/wordpress/1248/roleplaying-games/re-running-the-megadungeon-part-2-restocking-the-dungeon)
- [(Re-)Running the Megadungeon – Part 3: The Players Take Charge](https://thealexandrian.net/wordpress/49541/roleplaying-games/re-running-the-megadungeon-part-3-the-players-take-charge)
- [Treasure Maps & The Unknown: Goals in the Megadungeon](https://thealexandrian.net/wordpress/1900/roleplaying-games/treasure-maps-the-unknown-goals-in-the-megadungeon)
- [Breathing Life Into the Wandering Monster](https://thealexandrian.net/wordpress/7897/roleplaying-games/breathing-life-into-the-wandering-monster)

### Software engineering

- [Creating Viral Videos With AI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pgdmhwtsntk)
