---
date: 2023-06-04
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Grief of Stones][] by Katherine Addison

  Another instalment in the *Cemeteries of Amalo* murder mystery investigation
  fantasy series.  I hesitate to call it a murder mystery really, since the
  reader couldn't possibly figure the answer out from the information presented,
  it's more of a character drama with murders as the backdrop.
  
  Once again I found myself really impressed with how Katherine Addison mixes in
  fictional words in a way that both makes sense without needing explanation,
  and feels like words from an actual other language.  Unlike, say, Elric where
  none of the Melnibonean names (e.g. "Elric", "Cymoril", and "Yyrkoon") really
  sound like they come from the same culture.

[The Grief of Stones]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Grief_of_Stones


## Roleplaying Games

### Dolmenwood

Since last time, there's been yet more talking, and now we *have* decided to end
our Dolmenwood campaign.  Well, we gave it a good shot: we played for close to a
year.  It was fun while it lasted, and I'm very much looking forward to the
kickstarter for the finished books (which I'll no doubt run for a different
group) in a month or two.

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Sadly, the only remaining original member of this group (other than me) decided
to take a break for a while (I'm sensing a theme...).  But I managed to recruit
one of my Dolmenwood players to this game, and another player who was having a
break last month has said they might be up for joining in again.  So, you win
some, you lose some.

This week the party---to my surprise---*didn't* go to either of the other
not-guarded-by-halfling-thugs entrances they found last time.  Instead, they
went right back in the normal way to go investigate a secret tomb they'd heard
about.  They kind of found it, but got chased off by a pack of ghouls that were
nesting in there.  Oh well, at least the ghouls will keep the treasure safe from
other adventuring parties.  For a little while.

We also did some carousing, in which one of the PCs rolled that they burned down
a tavern and an NPC *knows*.  I don't know who that NPC is yet, but that's a fun
twist for when they're next in town.


## Miscellaneous

This week I got [a security issue filed against resolved][], which is a first.
Since resolved responds to an unexpected "response" message with an error
response, an attacker could craft a message with *the source address of
resolved*, forcing it into a reply loop: the attacker sends this initial packet,
resolved replies, the reply goes to itself, resolved replies again, ad
infinitum.

Pretty neat little problem, not one I'd considered, and perhaps explains why
[Cloudflare is so aggressive about dropping not-strictly-valid queries][]: any
leniency in what you accept is a potential vector for a clever attack.

Thankfully not exploitable in my use-case, since I run it on my LAN only, but
it's [a very simple fix][].

[a security issue filed against resolved]: https://github.com/barrucadu/resolved/issues/246
[Cloudflare is so aggressive about dropping not-strictly-valid queries]: https://github.com/barrucadu/resolved/pull/75
[a very simple fix]: https://github.com/barrucadu/resolved/pull/247
