---
date: 2023-07-30
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 16 of [Overlord][] by Kugane Maruyama

  I enjoyed this, but it could have been combined with the previous volume,
  since they're two parts of the same story arc and both volumes are a little
  shorter than the others.  But it's fine.  I liked it.  We got some more
  foreshadowing that Albedo is up to something, *and* the author announced in
  the afterward that the story will conclude with volume 18, so hopefully that
  foreshadowing will get resolved.
  
  Unfortunately, there's no volume 17 yet, not even in Japanese.  And there's a
  lag of 1 or 2 years before each volume is translated, so there's a long wait
  ahead...
  
  Speaking of long waits, back in 2021 they announced a film covering volumes 12
  and 13, but I don't think there's been any further news on that.

[Overlord]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overlord_(novel_series)


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week's session was really fun.  We ended the previous session just after
two retainers got killed by ghouls and the rest of the party barely escaped.  So
we started this session with the PCs feeling defeated and deciding to retreat.

And then they encountered a ghost.

This ghost couldn't speak, but he managed to communicate (through me describing
what he was pantomining and the PCs writing things in the dust on the floor and
having the ghost point at them) that he's been haunting these rooms unable to
rest because he's unburied---because of the very ghouls and wight that just
drove the PCs away!

So, with revenge *and* a goal (put the ghost to rest) in mind, the players spent
a while discussing combat tactics and how they could use a chokepoint in the
dungeon plus a few spear-wielding retainers to get an advantage over the ghouls.
Then they marched straight back to town, hired a small army of retainers,
outfitted them with armour, spears, and holy water... and marched back to the
dungeon to strike back at their foes!

They ended up killing four of the ghouls at their chokepoint before the wight
got them under control and pulled them back.  So if the players intend to finish
the job, they need to pursue into the wight's home territory.

A fun roleplaying encounter, careful strategising, and then putting the plan in
action to turn the tables on the enemies who almost wiped them out last time.
It was great.

### RuneQuest: Roleplaying in Glorantha

I've decided that the next one-shot will be [RuneQuest: Roleplaying in
Glorantha][], because I want to try out a different sort of fantasy, in a
different sort of system.  I'm going to run a short scenario from the GM Screen
Pack wherein the PCs are tasked with protecting a herd of sacred cattle from a
couple of saber-toothed cats that have appeared in the area.

I want to try out character creation too, rather than use pregens, so I think
this'll be a two-parter.  Probably going to run it after session 12 of the Arden
Vul campaign, so the 20th and 27th of August.

I've been reading the corebook this week.  There's a lot to like!  At its core
it's the same simple d100 skill-based system as Call of Cthulhu---and for
everything but the specific genre of *D&D-style fantasy* I vastly prefer
skill-based systems---but it's got the crunch dialled up to Pathfinder levels,
which I'm usually not so much a fan of.  But it's interesting enough to give it
a go, I find the high magic bronze-age setting really intriguing, and the crunch
will hopefully only be an impediment to getting started.

[RuneQuest: Roleplaying in Glorantha]: https://www.chaosium.com/runequest-roleplaying-in-glorantha-hardcover/


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Framing Combat Encounters](https://thealexandrian.net/wordpress/49718/roleplaying-games/framing-combat-encounters)
- [Random GM Tip – Epilogues & Skipping Time](https://thealexandrian.net/wordpress/49681/roleplaying-games/random-gm-tip-epilogues-skipping-time)
- [Zelda-Style NPC Personalities](https://todistantlands.github.io/2023/06/13/zelda-npcs.html)
- [Prison Planet Review](https://lukegearing.blot.im/prison-planet-review)
