---
date: 2023-08-06
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [RuneQuest: Roleplaying in Glorantha][] by Greg Stafford *et al*

  It's pretty complex, but I think I'm getting the hang of it.  I've made a
  couple of characters, and posted [a worked example][] to the RPG blog.  There
  are some confusing bits---like being able to create a character who starts
  with a whip, but there being no stats for a whip in the book---but I'm willing
  to overlook those hurdles since the setting is so interesting and I'm really
  looking forward to giving it a shot.

[RuneQuest: Roleplaying in Glorantha]: https://www.chaosium.com/runequest-roleplaying-in-glorantha-hardcover/
[a worked example]: https://www.lookwhattheshoggothdraggedin.com/post/rqg-character-creation-example.html


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

[Two weeks ago][] the players found a secret room, which turned out to be full
of ghouls and they lost two party members.  [Last week][], reinforced and
prepared, the players returned to show those ghouls what-for (and to put to rest
a friendly ghost who the ghouls had disturbed).  And this week the players
finally vanquished the ghouls, and buried the bones of the poor ghost who, as
thanks, pointed out a secret panel concealing fabulous wealth!

It's a nice cathartic conclusion to the ghoul saga. And they found a *lot* of
treasure.

But that of course gives rise to its own problems.  Just carrying it out of the
dungeon would take multiple trips---which means significantly more risk of
encounters---and the inn outside the dungeon is no place to store vast amounts
of treasure, so they actually need to take it to the nearby town, a day's walk
away.  So getting the treasure out and safely stored would take around a week,
in the best case.

These are the things that balance large treasure hordes.

The players have spent multiple real-life and in-game weeks just dealing with
the monsters, they had to spend money to do it (hiring and outfitting more
retainers, and making some magical scrolls), and even with the monsters defeated
there's still logistical issues to solve.  I don't begrudge them their loot, if
they manage to get it all out they've earned it!

You just don't get this sort of fun in modern D&D, where the party is all but
guaranteed to get a bag of holding in the first few levels (allowing them to
carry all the treasure at once without even slowing down), where GMs don't
really do random encounters (making time not an issue), and where individual PCs
are so strong they don't need retainers (so the party keep all the treasure to
themselves).  Getting the treasure *back* should be a fun challenge too!

On their second trip down, they *did* have a random encounter.

They bumped into a patrol of beastmen, who warned them to stay away and cut down
the rope bridge the players had previously strung up across the chasm.

So now half their treasure is stuck in hostile territory.

[Two weeks ago]: notes/253.html
[Last week]: notes/254.html


## Miscellaneous

This week I finally gave up on the 50 or so books that I've had noted down as
"missing" [in bookdb][] since I moved here back in 2019.  I think two boxes of
books just got misplaced in the move somehow.  They're definitely not here, but
fortunately none of them were books I cared about that much so I just deleted
them rather than buy replacements.  I also got rid of all the books I've had
noted down as "to donate" (for about as long)---there's nowhere around here that
wanted them, and I also can't recycle them because they're glue-bound, so I just
threw them out.  None of them were rare or old books, so I don't feel too
guilty.

So now I'm down to a mere 959 books, the first time under 1000 in a while.  But
I'm pretty certain that all of those books are actually here, in this room, and
not misplaced or unwanted.  So that's something.

[in bookdb]: https://bookdb.barrucadu.co.uk/search
