---
date: 2023-08-13
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Red Mars][] by Kim Stanley Robinson

  This has been on the list for a while, a hard sci-fi story about colonising
  and terraforming Mars, continued by two more books.  Kind of like *The
  Martian* but better, by all accounts.
  
  This week I picked it up and could hardly put it down.  It helped that I
  didn't have much to do at work, so I even read during my downtime, which I've
  not felt compelled to do in a while.  I really liked the framing device: we
  start with a big celebration after the successful colonisation missions and
  end that with a tragedy; then we jump back in time to the beginning of the
  mission and follow all these characters from departing Earth; then we skip
  ahead after the tragedy to the aftermath; and finally end on a cliffhanger
  setting up the next book.
  
  The book is hard sci-fi, yes, but it's also highly political.  The story is
  driven by the tension between the inhabitants of Mars and the megacorps of
  Earth who want to explot this new frontier, between the first Martian
  colonists and those who came after, and also between factions within all these
  groups.
  
  I think I'll be picking up *Green Mars*, the second book in the trilogy, very
  shortly.

- [The Great God Pan][] by Arthur Machen

  Which I last read almost 10 years ago: 2014!  Judging from last-read dates
  (or, rather, the lack thereof[^dates]) in bookdb, that was after my big
  Lovecraft phase ended, so my tastes had changed by the time I last read this
  book.  And they've changed again in the intervening 9 years.  But the book
  still holds up.
  
  It is a great short story.  We don't really get anything in the way of
  *details*, just hints of something truly horrifying lurking just out of sight,
  beyond the protective fictions that our brains impose upon reality to make
  sense of it.  And that's all a good weird tale needs.

[^dates]: I only started recording when I last read a book in 2012.  So books I
  last read before then don't have a date.

Last week I bought a bunch of new books, so this week I tidied up my bookcases a
bit.  And unfortunately, I'm running low on space again.  I have a little over
half a shelf left for fiction, about a shelf for RPGs, and a shelf and a half
for manga and light novels.  There's no more room for bookcases (for real this
time, every wall is occupied).

I need to buy a house with a tower I can turn into a library, or something.

[Red Mars]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mars_trilogy
[The Great God Pan]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Great_God_Pan


## Roleplaying Games

The [Dolemnwood kickstarter][] started on Wednesday, and it is more amazing than
I expected.  I was only planning to get the books, the GM screen, and a big
printed map (to frame and put on the wall).  But through a combination of
stretch goals and backing in the first 48 hours, I'm also getting, *for free*:

- A big cloth referee map
- Four adventures, printed and bound in hardback
- MP3s for a 10-track soundtrack by [Tales Under The Oak][]
- MP3s for looping atmospheric sounds, also by Tales Under the Oak
- A dice bag

And we're about $20k away from the next stretch goal, a book of maps, with 26
days still to go.

This is really great.  I am going to be picking up a few of the add-ons, but
almost everything I could have wanted is now included for free.  Just the
adventure books alone, $60 worth of material *for free*, is amazing.  This is
easily one of the best-value kickstarters I've backed, and the material is also
some of the highest quality.

I'm not sure when I'll return to Dolmenwood, but it *will* happen.

[Dolemnwood kickstarter]: https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/exaltedfuneral/dolmenwood-tabletop-rpg
[Tales Under The Oak]: https://talesundertheoak.bandcamp.com/album/the-toad-folk

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week treasure was sold, books were read, magic items were identified,
curses were removed, and levels were gained.  There was talk, too, about
building a house in the nearby town, so I guess I've got to figure out how much
that should cost: there's rules for building costs in OSE, but not how much the
actual *land* to build the building upon should cost.  I imagine that'll be
pretty expensive in a growing town.

Maybe I can find a handy blog post about land costs in OSR campaigns.

The players also returned to the dungeon---disregarding the warning of the
beastmen---and fetched the bulk of the remaining treasure they found last week.
They got lucky on the random encounters and were able to make it away
undetected, and we ended the session with them heading back to safety.

And now the campaign's on hold for two weeks, as we play some *RuneQuest:
Roleplaying in Glorantha*!

## Miscellaneous

I watched [The Witch][] this week.  It was very good, nice to see a creepy
horror film which doesn't rely on jump scares.

[The Witch]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Witch_(2015_film)
