---
date: 2023-09-03
---

## Work

Back at work this week, but fortunately past-me had the foresight to book my
week off immediately before a bank holiday weekend, so I had Monday to laze
around as well.

This week I was involved in a call with a client, which was pretty interesting
since I don't usually interact with that part of the business.  We're doing some
work on our side to support something happening on their side, and I'm the one
answering questions which need a developer's input.

In addition to my other work, I also continued [sortbet][]ing up some of the
team's code, and have got one part of it in pretty good shape now.  There's more
to go before I'm fully satisfied, but it is a start.  One benefit I didn't
expect was that sorbet's run-time type checking forces tests to actually call
the code in the way it's supposed to be called, rather than supplying dummy
values.  This is good, tests should reflect real usage.

[sortbet]: https://sorbet.org/


## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 16 of [That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime][] by Fuse

  This book had a good beginning and end, but didn't really have an overall
  story.  All it achieved was to wrap up the story of volume 15 and to set up
  the story of volume 17.
  
  This is because, unfortunately, the author finally fell for the temptation to
  quantify everything.
  
  The middle third of this book felt like a list of pregenerated RPG characters:
  numbers and skill lists.  The skill lists are just lists of names, and because
  this is isekai they're weird names that don't explain what they do, like
  "Lord's Ambition". The numbers don't even seem that useful; in the afterward,
  the author says that they correlate more or less linearly with combat power
  (but why does that even need to be quantified in the first place?) but in the
  actual story, the main character keeps making comments about how a character
  with skill level X was able to hold their own against (or even beat) a
  character with a significantly higher level Y due to being more practiced.
  
  The author also notes that the editor was really against this and stopped it
  happening earlier, I guess the editor finally gave up arguing against it.  But
  I wish he had kept up the fight.

[That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/That_Time_I_Got_Reincarnated_as_a_Slime

## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

We last played this campaign [three weeks ago][], and in that time I gathered
feedback from the players about how they felt the game was going.  This is
something I like to do every few months, and I have [a set list of questions I
use][].  The feedback this time was that the game is a lot of fun (one player
said that out of all the games they're in right now, this is the one they look
forward to the most, which is *great* to hear: say that sort of thing to your
GMs more often!) but there were a couple of wrinkles.

One player said that not only were they not really enjoying their character
class, they had *never* enjoyed it, should have brought this up sooner, and
wanted to change.  Oops.  I hadn't noticed, which isn't ideal.  They were absent
this week, but when they're back we'll just roll up a new character for them at
the same level as their current character (I don't want to punish them for
choosing a class they ended up not enjoying by starting them back at level 1).
And all the players agreed that the accounting was a bit fiddly at times,
especially now that they're dealing with thousands of gold coins most days, but
then still needing to pay coppers and silvers for food and lodgings.  So I
abstracted all their regular expenses away into a monthly cost-of-living fee.

So, back to the game.

This week was pretty exciting, because previously the players found a historic
book which detailed the connections between dungeon levels, and over the break I
figured out *which* connections specifically it detailed.  So I gave the players
vague in-universe directions to ten level connections they were unaware of, and
of course being in-universe these directions aren't totally obvious and refer to
landmarks the players haven't found yet.  For example:

- "south of the entrance to the catacombs, east of the Hall of Judges, north of
  the Glory of Thoth beneath the pyramid" (they know about the Glory of Thoth
  but were discussing a few possibilities for what the catacombs or the Hall of
  Judges could be), or
- "beyond a secret door east of the Greater Hall of Columns, where the corridor
  turns north to the Lesser Seat of Contemplation" (they know where those two
  things are and were able to find the secret door this session), or
- "the clerical offices north-west of the Court of the Troll Thegn have a
  passage to Marius' outpost at the floor of the chasm" (they don't know
  anything about the level the Court of the Troll Thegn is on).

So now they have landmarks to track down (by exploring or by gathering rumours)
which will then lead them deeper into the dungeon.  Great!

The players also decided that they wanted to ingratiate themselves with the
local Lady, and so did a bit of rumour-gathering on what it is she wants.
They've been talking too about possibly funding the construction of a temple,
which I would give them XP for (I give XP for philanthropy but so far they've
just been "donating money to the needy" rather than funding anything specific)
and which would definitely make the local authorities take note.

And of course the players still have their goal of finding a safe way into the
middle parts of the dungeon which isn't in the territory of any other faction,
since the two they know of are.

This dungeon is so much fun.

[three weeks ago]: notes/256.html
[a set list of questions I use]: https://www.lookwhattheshoggothdraggedin.com/post/mid-campaign-check-in.html


## Miscellaneous

I have a new project in the works, but I want to wait to see if it bears fruit
first before sharing it more widely.  Watch this space.
