---
date: 2023-10-08
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Green Mars][] by Kim Stanley Robinson

  A good second instalment in this politics-thinly-disguised-as-hard-sci-fi
  series.  It's set a few decades after the events of the first book, but with
  many of the same characters, due to the longevity treatments developed during
  the first book.  The right to self-rule is the main theme of the book, but
  another significant one is the rule (not necessarily by law, but certainly by
  influence) of an ever-aging elite, despite the bulk of the population becoming
  more and more culturally distinct from these elites.

  Often, literature snobs look down on "genre fiction" as just being about
  tropey stories with no real message to tell.  Devoid of value, as if it's only
  worth reading "literary fiction" (which is just as much a genre as any other)
  or nonfiction.  And I fully admit that is true for a lot of stuff, even stuff
  I've read and enjoyed.  But I would hold up the Mars Trilogy as an example of
  genre fiction that *does* deliver a message, and does it well.

[Green Mars]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mars_trilogy


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

We spend half of this week's session doing downtime stuff: selling loot, getting
magic items identified, convalescing, and founding a hospital to be the target
of their future philanthropic giving.

The hospital is quite exciting, as it's the first time the party have
unquestionably made their mark on the world: this'll get them noticed by local
important NPCs for sure, and it's likely to lead to more adventure as the PCs
try to build up the wealth to not only keep it going, but also to make it better
equipped and more important (using the *Downtime in Zyan* institution rules).

After that, the party headed back to Arden Vul to explore the ruined city on the
surface some more.  I think the players are realising just how much stuff there
is up there, outside the dungeon proper, that they'd overlooked before.
However, the stuff in the ruined city isn't disconnected from the dungeon.  One
of the things I like about Arden Vul is how it sprinkles high-level content and
campaign-altering mysteries all over the place: the players might not be able to
make sense of everything they find, but they can tell that there's some secret
to uncover.


## Miscellaneous

It's another new anime season, so I'm checking out a bunch of shows.  It's a
good season for sequels, but there's also some interesting-looking new things
too.  It's also nice to see that the isekai tide is finally starting to recede,
as there's plenty of just normal fantasy this season without the totally
unnecessary framing device of the main character being a magically transported
Japanese guy.

[Frieren][] came out of nowhere for me, I'd not heard of it before, but it is
*really good*.  Anime of the season, for sure.  It is about an elf mage and her
adventuring party, set after they completed their 10-year quest to defeat the
dark lord and save the world.  The defining event of a lifetime for the human
party members; a short errand for Frieren.  The theme is the passage of time,
loss, and how sometimes you only realise you didn't spend enough time with
someone until it's too late.

I've already ordered all the books.

[Frieren]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frieren


## Link Roundup

### Miscellaneous

- How to Roman Republic 101:
  - [Part I: SPQR](https://acoup.blog/2023/07/21/collections-how-to-roman-republic-101-part-i-spqr/)
  - [Part II: Romans, Assemble!](https://acoup.blog/2023/07/27/collections-how-to-roman-republic-101-part-ii-romans-assemble/)
  - [Part IIIa: Starting Down the Path of Honors](https://acoup.blog/2023/08/11/collections-how-to-roman-republic-101-part-iiia-starting-down-the-path-of-honors/)
  - [Part IIIb: Imperium](https://acoup.blog/2023/08/18/collections-how-to-roman-republic-101-part-iiib-imperium/)
  - [Part IIIc: Ten Tribunes, Two Censors and Twenty-Six Guys](https://acoup.blog/2023/08/25/collections-how-to-roman-republic-part-iiic-ten-tribunes-two-censors-and-twenty-six-guys/)
  - [Part IV: The Senate](https://acoup.blog/2023/09/22/collections-how-to-roman-republic-part-iv-the-senate/)
  - [Part V: The Courts](https://acoup.blog/2023/10/06/collections-how-to-roman-republic-part-v-the-courts/)
