---
date: 2023-10-15
---

## Books

No books this week!  I've spent all my free time playing [Baldur's Gate 3][].

[Baldur's Gate 3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baldur%27s_Gate_3


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

One of the more action-packed sessions, where things could have easily gone very
badly if one party member hadn't just happened to have a *Potion of Undead
Control (Ghouls)* which let them escape a very hairy situation with only two
deaths.

But then the players ended up barricading themselves in a small room while angry
baboons batter the door down.  Drums, drums in the deep, they cannot get out...
Quite a cliffhanger ending!

I've really enjoyed the last couple of sessions.  They've really demonstrated
what I like about Arden Vul, which is that the cool stuff *isn't gated behind
being deep in the dungeon* like in some modules.  It's all over the place.

For example, one of the first things the players found was an obelisk with a sun
motif and a weird inscription---"The Beacon shall be revealed to those who bring
midday life to the Sun, the Moon and the Stars"---and a deeply-incised ankh as
if a physical ankh could be plugged into it.

It's right at the entrance to the Arden Vul, it's impossible to miss.

But nothing came of it.  Until *16 sessions later* when the players found an
ankh in a wizard's lab which fit into the obelisk.  They tried inserting it at
noon, but nothing happened.  "Oh well," they thought, "let's get back to
adventuring."  They then found, in the walled grounds of a ruined palace, a
*second* obelisk.  Same inscription, same ankh-shaped slot, but *this* one had a
moon theme.  All of a sudden the players are poring over their map trying to
work out where a third obelisk, with a star motif, could possibly be, and
talking about how they might be able to put the word out to pawn shops that
they're looking for these ankhs in case anyone comes in with one to sell.

It's good dungeon design, but also good playing on the group's part.  They're
thinking exactly how they should be, and I reward that; I don't give them things
for free, but if a plan they come up with sounds reasonable I'll just allow it
more often than not.  Imagine how dull it would have been if they started
talking about the possibility of a third obelisk and I said "that's a good idea,
*make an intelligence check to see if your character could think of it*."  Ew.

I'm really looking forward to when they start to uncover some of the big
secrets, and suddenly things they thought to be unrelated start to come
together.

There is a story behind Arden Vul, if they can find it.


## Miscellaneous

I spent a little time playing around with [mdBook][], [rustdoc][], and [GitHub
Pages][] (I know, I know, I'm late to the party) to set up a little
documentation site for [resolved][].

I'm quite pleased with the result:
[resolved.docs.barrucadu.co.uk](https://resolved.docs.barrucadu.co.uk/)

I like how I can build and deploy it through GitHub Actions.  When I last gave
GitHub Pages a try the state of the art was having your CI tool push to a
special branch, which always felt like it was misusing git.

The next step will be to review and improve the crate documentation, which is
clearly very lacking now that I'm actually able to see it.

I've started on a similar site for my [NixOS configuration][], to document my
custom modules and options, which should hopefully be done some time next week.
I'm thinking of moving the [dejafu docs][] over, as well.

[mdBook]: https://rust-lang.github.io/mdBook/
[rustdoc]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustdoc/what-is-rustdoc.html
[GitHub Pages]: https://docs.github.com/pages
[resolved]: https://github.com/barrucadu/resolved
[NixOS configuration]: https://github.com/barrucadu/nixfiles
[dejafu docs]: https://dejafu.readthedocs.io/
