---
date: 2023-10-29
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Rim of Morning][] by William Sloane

  I picked up this collection of two cosmic horror stories the same time I did
  [The Outcast and The Rite][], it just caught my eye one day in a bookshop.
  And, like that other book, this one turned out to be a good impulse buy.  The
  introduction describes the two stories in this volume, *To Walk the Night* and
  *In The Edge of Running Water*, as some sort of forgotten treasures, and
  having read them I agree.  They're very well done.

  Reading them back-to-back did make their similarities stand out, so it might
  have been better to read something else between them, but they were still
  enjoyable.

  Both stories are told from the perspective of a narrator, who was a close
  friend of the victim and who personally experienced some of the events,
  relating the tale afterwards.  In both, the victim is a genius (mathematics in
  *To Walk the Night*, physics in *In The Edge of Running Water*) who gets
  caught up in some research probing beyond what man was meant to know, becoming
  estranged from friends (including the narrator) and moving somewhere remote to
  focus on the work, ultimately paying the ultimate price.

  Not only are the stories good, the book itself is pleasing too.  The paper is
  fairly thick, the whole book has a feeling of density and significance.

- Volume 10 of [Delicious in Dungeon][] by Ryoko Kui

  The story is definitely approaching its climax now: we have the main
  characters facing off against the master of the dungeon, the
  dungeon-destroying elves closing in, and lying in the background of all this
  the central mystery of what the dungeon is.  Is it the egg of a demon which
  will consume all who seek to master it, as the elves say?  Or is it endless
  possibility, as our protagonists hope?

[The Rim of Morning]: https://www.goodreads.com/en/book/show/24783930
[The Outcast and The Rite]: notes/258.html
[Delicious in Dungeon]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delicious_in_Dungeon


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week we decided to try out [Miro][] for mapping, as Owlbear has started to
lag quite a lot on some of the larger maps.  Owlbear is great, but it's clearly
designed for throwing up images and making notes on them, or drawing battlemaps
and *small* dungeon maps.  Despite its infinite scroll, it can't really handle
the scale of even a single full floor of Arden Vul, most of which are large
dungeons in their own right.

Miro's performant enough that you can even put up multiple floors all on the
same board, which led to one player looking at the relative layout of rooms on
different floors and making predictions about what they'd find, which is
*really* cool.

Unfortunately, one player's computer really struggled with Miro.  Garbled voice
chat, which cleared up the instant they closed the board.  If we can't figure
out a way to resolve that, we'll have to go back to Owlbear, might have to adopt
drastic measures like breaking up single dungeon levels into multiple Owlbear
maps.

[Miro]: https://miro.com

### Upcoming One-Shots

I've got two new short games in the works, which I'm quite looking forward to.

Off the back of my sudden interest in sword-and-sorcery adventuring with [Black
Sword Hack][], I've decided to call the next break in Arden Vul.  So we've got
one more session of Arden Vul next week, then two weeks of Black Sword Hack.  I
have some ideas for an adventure, but the game has a collaborative worldbuilding
step, so I'll just keep those ideas in the back of my mind for now and flesh
something out after we do character and world creation on the 12th.

I'm also hoping to run the [ALIEN][] scenario *Destroyer of Worlds* in the near
future, but I'm still gathering players for that.  It might end up being in
December, or even early next year.

[Black Sword Hack]: https://www.themerrymushmen.com/product/black-sword-hack-ultimate-chaos-edition/
[ALIEN]: https://www.alien-rpg.com/


## Miscellaneous

I've decided to redecorate a little.

I'm planning to free up a little space in the living room by moving my
whiteboard into the kitchen (since I only use it to track my shopping list and
meal plan) which, with a bit of rearrangement, will let me fit in a new bookcase
and put up some new art.  I also wanted to expand my CD storage, but was greatly
saddened to discover IKEA are discontinuing the GNEDBY, they still have some
units left, but not in the colour I want.  So I'll have to do something
different there.

Though, every time feel like changing things up, I can't help but think how much
easier it would be if I *had a house*.  I wouldn't even need an especially big
house to just have way more space than my current flat.  But, alas, I live near
London and so anything beyond a small house is ludicrously expensive.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [TACTICAL COMBAT MECHANICS for Theater of the Mind Dungeon Crawls](https://alldeadgenerations.blogspot.com/2023/10/dungeon-skr.html)

### Miscellaneous

- [How to Roman Republic 101, Addenda: The Socii](https://acoup.blog/2023/10/20/collections-how-to-roman-republic-101-addenda-the-socii/)
