---
date: 2023-11-05
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Last Days][] by Adam Nevill

  This is the second Adam Nevill book I've read, after *The Ritual* [back in
  2020][], and I greatly enjoyed this one too.  It's about an independent
  film-maker hired on short notice and for a lot of money to make a film about a
  hippy suicide cult from a few decades previously, specifically focussing on
  the paranormal aspects of the cult.  It's done really well, it was creepy, I
  thought the build-up was really effective.

  The idea of 500-year-old undead phasing through solid walls as they force
  their way out of hell and into our reality---leaving behind horrifying images
  burned into the walls which fade in the presence of daylight---is great.

  I'll definitely be picking up some more Adam Nevill books.

- Volumes 11 and 12 of [Delicious in Dungeon][] by Ryoko Kui

  Well, the demon turned out to be the bad guy after all.  Figures.

  Anyway, this brings me to the end of the physically published manga: there are
  some chapters left, but they're not in volume format yet.  Which means given
  the translation lag, it's realistically looking like late 2024 / early 2025 at
  the earliest before I'll be able to finish the story.

[Last Days]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Last_Days_(Nevill_novel)
[back in 2020]: notes/095.html
[Delicious in Dungeon]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delicious_in_Dungeon


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

We managed to fix the Miro issue, so we have now switched over fully from
Owlbear.

It was another fun session, in which I managed to stall the players for close to
half an hour of real-time by just having the apparently-evil NPC wizard being
willing to negotiate fairly with them.  It was totally in-character: he knew the
party was dangerous, and was willing to give up quite a bit just for their
promise to leave him alone.  The players couldn't get over the idea that there
*must* be an ulterior motive, that this *must* be a trap or a trick
somehow---but no, this is just the result of them gaining a reputation for being
wizard-killing badasses.

On the other hand, the players have been drastically *under*thinking some of the
rumours they've previously gathered.  A while back they got one about a secret
door in a fairly distinctive room near some landmark.  The players found the
landmark a couple of sessions ago, walking *through the distinctive room* to get
there, and the penny... hasn't dropped yet.  I even reminded them at the start
of this session (and by the way, they passed both the landmark and the
distinctive room *again* this session) to keep an eye on their rumour list,
since they were exploring new territory.

There's only so much I can do.  I don't want to just come straight out and say
"hey guys, don't you think this room you're in right now sounds like the one in
that rumour?"

Ah, players.

Next week: [Black Sword Hack][]!

[Black Sword Hack]: https://www.themerrymushmen.com/product/black-sword-hack-ultimate-chaos-edition/


## Link Roundup

### Miscellaneous

- [How to Roman Republic 101, Addenda: The Provinces](https://acoup.blog/2023/11/03/collections-how-to-roman-republic-101-addenda-the-provinces/)
