---
date: 2023-11-12
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Corum: The Prince with the Silver Hand][] by Michael Moorcock

  The second Corum trilogy, and set a thousand years or more after the first
  trilogy, with Corum being summoned to do battle against the Fomorians.  The
  first Corum trilogy felt vaguely Welsh-inspired, this second trilogy was
  definitely much more so.  In each book, Corum has to undertake a quest to
  retrieve some legendary treasures created or brought by ancient Sidhe warriors
  to fight off the Fomorians---the Sidhe and Fomorians all being extra-planar
  beings not native to the world of Corum and the Mabden.

  Unlike most of the other Moorcock stories I've read, there isn't really much
  in the way of the wider multiverse---Law, Chaos, the Balance, the Eternal
  Champion---in these stories.  The closest we get is that someone theorises the
  Fomorians may be degenerate Lords of Chaos, trapped in Limbo and driven mad,
  and Gaynor the Damned makes an appearance as a servant of the Fomorians.  The
  stories feel much more like something out of mythology, which makes sense as
  that's clearly what Michael Moorcock was heavily drawing from.

[Corum: The Prince with the Silver Hand]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corum_Jhaelen_Irsei


## Roleplaying Games

### Black Sword Hack

This week I ran a one-shot of [Black Sword Hack][].  I prepared a super-tropey
adventure inspired by the *Slayers of the Blood God* scenario in the rulebook,
the tower break-in scene from the *Conan the Barbarian* film, and the Michael
Moorcock story *Elric of Melnibone*.

Originally I was just going to run *Slayers of the Blood God*, but then I
thought that if this is just a one-shot and we're likely never going to return
to the system, I wanted to cram in as many Moorcock tropes as I could:
runeswords, gods, magic, different planes of reality, etc.

And so, **Murjana**---a sophist and natural diplomat, born and educated in the
richest palace of the Caliphate---and **Rina**---a decadent, storytelling,
warlock raised in a necropolis by ghosts---found themselves tasked to break into
the tower of Lord Suren and steal a powerful artefact, the loss of which would
greatly set back the plans of the setting's antagonist: an evil empire of Law.

*Black Sword Hack* has a little system for generating a sword-and-sorcery world,
so we did that, then created characters which tied into the world, and finally I
slotted the details in, madlibs style, into the adventure I'd written
previously.  The players ended up setting fire to a tower full of priceless
artefacts, making a bargain with a trapped Lord of Chaos, finding a runesword,
and slaying an evil shadow-clone.  We ended the session with them trapped in the
dead world where the runesword was hidden, wondering how they would get home.
Good stuff.

It was fun, fairly fast-paced, and definitely different to our usual *Arden Vul*
game.  There were a few things we messed up with the rules, but that's always
the case with a new system.  I'm not sure I'd use *Black Sword Hack* for a
campaign, there's a possibility of bringing it back for future one-shots; but,
then again, there's always more systems I want to try.

[Black Sword Hack]: https://www.themerrymushmen.com/product/black-sword-hack-ultimate-chaos-edition/
