---
date: 2023-11-26
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [A Short History of Byzantium][] by John Julius Norwich

  I picked this up inspired by Arden Vul, which bases its Archontean Empire on
  the Byzantines.  I'm not so sure it'll be useful for the game, but it was
  certainly entertaining.  The Byzantine Empire was nuts.  So much murder and
  intrigue.  People rioting in the streets about the divinity of Christ.
  Successive generations of emperors thinking "I'll just make this powerful
  political rival a co-emperor, give him a little power and hope that's enough"
  and then being surprised when the new co-emperor backstabs them...

  I especially liked how, as the book gets towards the fall of Byzantium, every
  chapter began to end in one of two ways: "So-and-so was a good emperor, if he
  had lived longer / not had this bind spot / not been preoccupied by this
  threat he could have reversed the decline and changed the history of Eastern
  Christianity." or "So-and-so actively made everything worse and it's a miracle
  the empire didn't collapse during his reign."

[A Short History of Byzantium]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Short_History_of_Byzantium


## Roleplaying Games

The Alexandrian has released his new book [So You Want to Be a Game Master][]!

[So You Want to Be a Game Master]: https://thealexandrian.net/wordpress/50264/roleplaying-games/so-you-want-to-be-a-game-master-2

### The Halls of Arden Vul

I decided to bite the bullet and openly advertise for new players.  I largely
followed [this guide I found a while back][] and submitted [a post to /r/lfg][]
(which I crossposted to /r/lfgmisc and the weekly /r/osr LFG thread).

I got 8 applications: three seemed kind of generic, as if they just wanted to
play in any game; one didn't really fit (they said they enjoyed character
builds, which OSE is not good for at all); one said they'd have to leave early
every week (which I'm not a fan of); but the other three were pretty promising.

Unfortunately, of the promising ones, two said they'd looked into Arden Vul
before.  My current players have been having a lot of fun trying to figure
things out for themselves, so I didn't want to risk inviting someone who might
unintentionally spoil some of the lore.  So I invited the one promising
application who didn't say that they already knew things about Arden Vul.

They played their first session today, and it went pretty well.  They fit in
with the group and we all had a good time, hopefully it will continue.

In this week's session, the players managed to find one of the important
locations of Arden Vul: the Oracle of Thoth, along with the 250-year-old
Anaximander trapped inside it by his hubris.  They retrieved Anaximander and
managed to get out of him that he was on the failed expedition to reconquer
Arden Vul some 200 years ago, and then started to make their way out of the
dungeon.  Realising they wouldn't get back to safety before dark, they decided
to stop over with crazy old Lankios, who is friendly but who never remembers
them.  When they greeted Lankios, to their surprise, Anaximander croaked out
"Lankios?  Lankios the polemarch?  You too have been preserved?"

I called an early end to the session there, and next time will begin with an
exposition dump as the PCs manage to get some information out of Anaximander
about Lankios, his love Guivrel, the mysterious betrayer "K", and Adriennic's
ill-fated expedition.

[this guide I found a while back]: https://old.reddit.com/r/rpg/comments/14x6cow/meeting_people_online_a_gms_guide_to_recruiting/
[a post to /r/lfg]: https://old.reddit.com/r/lfg/comments/180pdnh/onlinebxutc_the_halls_of_arden_vul_an_oldschool/
