---
date: 2023-12-10
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Cities in Flight][] by James Blish

  This is a slightly confused book, being a collection of four novels not
  arranged in publication order---instead arranged in in-universe chronological
  order---and the novels themselves being made up of several short stories
  smashed together.

  The seams were pretty visible, especially in the third novel which really felt
  like three different stories which had just been glued together at the chapter
  boundaries.  The first and second novels were pretty cohesive, but then the
  fourth one again was a bit disjointed: with a weird crusade subplot which came
  out of nowhere, was a *big deal* for a few chapters, and then got totally
  resolved and was never mentioned again.

  Despite the flaws, I did overall enjoy this book, even if it didn't really
  leave me with a keen desire to check out more of James Blish's work.  It felt
  very *Traveller* to me.  The setting is very different, other than some
  surface similarities like having anagathic (anti-aging) drugs, and Earth
  encountering a older, hostile, interstellar polity shortly after branching out
  into space, but is otherwise very different: the mechanics of FTL travel, and
  the presence of instant real-time communication across space would *radically*
  change the Traveller universe.  But the feeling, the cities being big
  spaceships full of migrant workers who arrive in a system, do a job for some
  questionable employers, and then leave to go elsewhere, felt like it came
  right out of a Traveller campaign.  Or the other way around, I suppose, given
  the publication year.

[Cities in Flight]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cities_in_Flight


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

We had our very first PC deaths this week, after 26 sessions of play.  The party
had an unfortunate encounter with a pack of ghouls in a room under an anti-magic
effect, which rendered most of their good equipment inert.  There were also some
unlucky dice rolls, with a couple of characters succumbing to the ghouls'
paralysing attacks in the first round of the combat.  The remaining party
members had to leave their paralysed companions (and their magical equipment)
behind and make their escape while they still could.

So we lost two PCs, one retainer, and a lot of good gear.  But two
long-suffering retainers have been promoted to PC status, two new retainers have
been hired, and the players are drawing up plans for how to reclaim the sizeable
treasure horde they've inadvertently created.

Though, before they mount an expedition to do that, they're going to go follow
up on some other leads they have, doing something totally different for a while
to clear their heads and to find some more loot.

Adventurers clearing out monsters to recover treasure, only to in turn be killed
by new monsters and deposit their treasure elsewhere is all part of the
dungeon's circle of life.


## Advent of Code

I'm still at it, though I've skipped part 2 for a few days.  Let's see how much
longer I stick with it, though day 15 or so is usually around when I get bored
and stop.
