---
date: 2024-01-14
---

## Books

No books this week, I was busy playing Ironsworn (see below).


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Session *30* this week, wow.

We spent about an hour of real-time finishing up business with the goblins, and
the players managed to get free entry to and passage through the Goblin Warrens,
which was quite clever of them.  They were hauled in to meet the King of the
Goblins, who was grateful to them for finding and opening up a route to the
surface for them, but also cautious about the motives of these strangers.

As a test, after talking about how valuable this entrance is and how much trade
and gold it will bring in, he asked the PCs to name their reward.

The players said that they simply wanted the goodwill of the goblins, and were
sure that the king could name a suitable reward, but that if they could make a
suggestion it would be free passage.  The entrance fee is normally 1gp each,
really a token amount, so this was a really insignificant reward.  The king
happily granted it, and the PCs rose in his estimation.

Now they have some friends---admittedly from one of the weaker factions---but
more importantly they have direct access to the middle levels of Arden Vul.

We spent the rest of the session furthering their plans at the Obsidian Gates.
The players suspected that an electrum rod they found was one of the two keys
for a nearby set of big bronze double doors, so they had a duplicate made and it
worked!  They kicked open some more doors, looted some stuff, and we ended the
session with a pair of human eyes floating in a bowl of mercury, gods know how
old but at least 250 years, *looking at them...*

This is all fun and well and good, but something on my mind (I'm not sure if the
players have realised yet) is that it's been a while since they found a big
treasure haul.  Their finances are starting to run low.  They still have a few
thousand gold, but if they keep paying hundreds of gold for living expenses
(which includes food, lodgings, hireling wages, property tax, etc), on
identifying magic items and potions, and on philanthropy, it's not long before
they'll run out.

I wonder what they'll do then.

### Ironsworn

I've spent a lot of this week playing [Ironsworn][], a free solo (or co-op, or
GMed) RPG about being an honourable guy in a low-fantasy frozen viking
northlands kind of setting.

The mechanics are very PbtA, which normally I'm not a huge fan of.  I prefer
rules to operate at the level of the character or the world, not at the level of
narrative, and PbtA moves are all about driving the narrative.  But for a solo
game like Ironsworn, I think that narrative rules actually work really well,
because you *need* something to send the narrative in unexpected directions when
it's just you.

The action is driven by swearing vows.  Completing vows is how you get XP to
improve your character.  Your character is an honourable guy who would be pained
to forsake a vow, and so only swears them for important things.  You start the
game with two vows: an overarching background vow which is the driver of the
campaign arc as a whole, and a smaller more immediate vow to resolve the
inciting incident that kickstarts the game.

I played a guy called Delkash, a hunter from a settlement near the Deep Wilds, a
region of untamed forest in the heart of the Ironlands.  His background vow was
to **forge a bond of friendship with the elves of the Deep Wilds**, he'd never
seen an elf before, but he'd heard legends, and respected them as a people who
had become one with this inhospitable monster-filled forest.  The inciting
incident was a raid on his village: he came home from hunting to find buildings
on fire and people gone, his sister amongst them; so his second vow was to
**rescue my sister from the raiders**.

Unfortunately, Delkash ended up dying in a fight with a raider, but not before
he'd spent a few weeks living amongst them as a hunter (after being captured
himself, but proving himself useful enough to not be sold into slavery) trying
to slowly earn their trust and respect, to set himself up in a position where he
could challenge their leader for supremacy (and so just release his sister).
Alas, plans don't always work out.

It was a lot of fun though.  The creative muscles take a little while to warm
up, but now I've got some ideas for a second campaign attempt---maybe a more
successful one this time.  I liked it so much that I bought the books, as it is
always nice to have a physical copy.

[Ironsworn]: https://www.ironswornrpg.com/


## Miscellaneous

The upcoming Japan trip in April is slowly coming together.  This week I swapped
a troublesome on-call shift at work and booked the time off, and there's been
rumblings in the group chat about booking hotels.  I need to get in touch with
my banks to let them know I'll be abroad and so not to shut everything down when
I try to do things, but I'll leave that closer to the time.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Blorb Principles](https://idiomdrottning.org/blorb-principles)
