---
date: 2024-01-21
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The First Ghosts][] by Irving Finkel

  I find Mesopotamian history and mythology really interesting.  It's *just so
  old!*  And yet I'm really poorly read in the area, I know what I know from
  online articles, the Epic of Gilgamesh, and a book of Inanna myths.  I want to
  fix that, I want to know more.

  So I picked up this book by [Irving Finkel][], who is *the* man I'd want with
  me if I found myself magically transported to ancient Babylon.

  It starts by discussing Sumerian funeral practices and argues that this
  indicates a belief that ghosts exist and, more importantly, can *come back*.
  I wasn't entirely convinced on that latter point, but then the majority of the
  book looks at ancient literature, spells, and myths, which all *do* very
  clearly show that they believes in ghosts in much the same way that you or I
  believe in doors.  All very interesting stuff, I especially liked the copious
  amounts of translated cunieform, clearly showing what they thought about
  ghosts, and how to deal with them.

  He also has an interesting chapter comparing the Sumerian and Assyrian ghost
  beliefs to sections of the Old Testament, arguing that the authors must have
  believed roughly the same sort of thing.  I'm not sure how widely-accepted
  that theory is, but interesting and persuasive nevertheless.

  I will definitely check out his other book "The Ark Before Noah".

[The First Ghosts]: https://www.lrb.co.uk/the-paper/v44/n02/moudhy-al-rashid/roaming-malicious-hooligan-ghosts
[Irving Finkel]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irving_Finkel


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Not a lot of action this week, the players spent most of the time organising and
then retrieving the contents of a treasure vault they came across at the end of
last session.  Unfortunately for them the haul, while physically large and
impressive, was not quite as valuable as they'd hoped, consisting mainly of
silver coins.  But they did also retrieve a few artefacts they could sell for
gold

I pushed the players for some indication of their longer-term plans, and it is
largely as I expected: primarily, they want to go beat up the ghouls who killed
their previous mid-level PCs, both for revenge and to recover their magical
items; and secondarily they want to get a full set of teleportation tiles and
start experimenting with that.  They're not too happy with how long it's taking
the curio shop to acquire tiles for them, so a change of plans there may be in
order.

It's now been a few in-game days since the party gave the goblins a direct route
to the surface, so I need to figure out how that changes things when they return
to the dungeon.  The goblins might want to exert control over who enters the
dungeon, which might throw a wrench in their plans.  We'll see.  The goblins
like the party a lot, but they're not formal allies or anything and the goblins
do have their own goals.  I'll think about it.

### One-shots

We've decided on the next break from the main campaign: it's going to be [ALIEN:
Destroyer of Worlds][], which I expect to take three sessions.

We're all really looking forward to this.  It's not the same group I played the
previous scenario, [Chariot of the Gods][], with (other than one of the players
who I poached for Arden Vul [when the Dolmenwood campaign ended][]); but that's
fine, they're only very loosely connected.  There's no characters or places in
common, and I think this scenario actually takes place beforehand, there's just
a few minor references.

I've picked up the Foundry module, because it was reasonably cheap, and the
*Chariot of the Gods* module was fairly helpful even if I had to fix some errors
in it, so I'll be reading through the scenario and getting everything set up
over the next couple of weeks.

[ALIEN: Destroyer of Worlds]: https://freeleaguepublishing.com/shop/alien-rpg-2/destroyer-of-worlds/
[Chariot of the Gods]: https://freeleaguepublishing.com/shop/alien-rpg-2/starter-set/
[when the Dolmenwood campaign ended]: notes/246.html

### Solo roleplaying

I've played some more [Ironsworn][] this week, mostly looking into the delve
mechanics for site-based adventuring (dungeons, haunted woods, etc).  I ran a
little one-shot, working through a complex delve.  It's pretty neat, it
essentially generates a pointcrawl as you play.

About half way through my delve I realised I was getting the rules wrong, which
was making it feel a bit more abstract and less satisfying than it should have
been.  I was getting the rules wrong because *Ironsworn* has a lot of its
content on physical playing cards.

For delving, for example, when you decide what sort of location it is you pick a
"theme" card and a "domain" card, and they combine to form a random table which
describes the sort of places you encounter as you explore.

But I don't have the cards.  I only have the PDF of the cards.

I read them, forgot about their tables, and so was rolling on the wrong table,
and struggling to think of what I was encountering, rather than being inspired
by the cards.

I normally don't like physical components for games, I find they're usually just
gimmicks that cost a lot of money and you can easily do without, but I think I
will actually get the *Ironsworn* cards.  They're print-on-demand, so they're
fairly cheap and can be easily replaced if I lose or damage them; unlike other
physical components I've passed up on, like the very cool-looking but
not-sold-separately maps for *ALIEN*: if you damage one of those you've got to
buy a whole adventure box set again!

[Ironsworn]: https://www.ironswornrpg.com/


## Miscellaneous

We've got hotels for the Japan trip!  Two days in Tokyo for everyone to gather
and recover from jetlag, then we catch the shinkansen down to Osaka and stay
there for a week, then back up to Tokyo for the last week.  I'll be splitting
off for a couple of days during the Osaka segment to visit some other friends in
Matsuyama, which'll probably be a domestic flight.  I need to arrange that.

But it's not all good news.  I was looking at my wardrobe thinking about what
would be suitable for Japan in April and it struck me just how few clothes I
have, even if I took everything I'd need to do laundry two or three times during
the trip, which is an inconvenience.  I need to buy more clothes.  Get it down
to one instance of laundry at most.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [When Entering a Polity…](https://lukegearing.blot.im/when-entering-a-polity%E2%80%A6)
- [The Law of the Conservation of NPCs](https://thealexandrian.net/wordpress/4891/roleplaying-games/the-law-of-the-conservation-of-npcs)
