---
date: 2024-01-28
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Worlds of Exile and Illusion][] a collection of three novels by Ursula K. Le Guin

  These are some of her earlier stories, and they're a bit lacking in polish
  compared to others that I've read, but they're still very enjoyable.  The
  three stories are about a galactic league of allied worlds dealing with a
  threat from outside the galaxy: the first, *Rocannon's World*, is set before
  the war and shows the cracks beginning to form in the league as bad actors
  take advantage of the distraction; *Planet of Exile* is set after the war
  began, on a world where the colonists haven't heard anything from Earth in
  centuries and are beginning to question their past and purpose; and *City of
  Illusions* is set on Earth, after the war, with the occupiers claiming that
  there really was no war after all, it was just a group hysteria.

  Each story references the one that came before, but they also stand
  independently of each other.

[Worlds of Exile and Illusion]: https://www.ursulakleguin.com/worlds-of-exile-and-illusion


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week the players returned to the old Archontean HQ near the Obsidian Gates
to recover the last of the contents of the army pay-chests.  There, under the
watchful gaze of the dozens of large, sad-looking toads, one player *finally*
said "I have to know what's up with those toads", and cast *Speak With Animals.*

The croaking of the toads turned into cries of despair, cries for help, cries to
be killed and put out of their misery; the cries of unfortunate adventurers who
had fallen victim to the foul chaotic magic in the area.  One toad described how
she and her party had been trying to find a way through the Obsidian Gates and,
in their prodding and poking, activated some sort of trap: in a flash of brown
light, two demons appeared and began to tear apart her friends, she took a
fearful step backwards and felt the cold obsidian against her, then the
agonising pain of her body contorting and twisting, breaking and reforming, into
that of a toad.

I'm not sure what the players were expecting, but it definitely wasn't that.

They did manage to leverage their connections in town to get a high-level NPC
cleric turn one toad they brought out of the dungeon back into a human by
casting *Dispel Evil* (they tried *Remove Curse* first but that didn't work).

So the players have decided to take upon themselves a noble quest: bring the
toads out of the dungeon and restore to them their humanity.  But it'll take a
lot of time (*Dispel Evil* is a high-level spell, you can't just cast it
willy-nilly) and money (miracles don't come cheap).

### Solo Roleplaying

This week I started a new Ironsworn campaign.  I decided to play someone
obsessed with lost knowledge and arcane secrets, trying to gain the power of
magic in a world where everyone thinks it to be a myth or a trick.  I was going
to figure out their background vow---the driving force of the campaign---in
play, starting with a quest to recover some sort of legendary magic item and
then seeing how I could tie that into something bigger but, after rolling up the
NPC bonds and working out the details of the inciting incident, I felt that I
just had to make the background vow "become a witch".

I'm trying out running this game in Miro, so I can have the visual element of
the Ironsworn cards without actually needing to buy them first (though I do
intend to get the physical cards), and it's working pretty well.  I'm also
keeping pretty brief notes this time, unlike my previous campaign where I was
typing up full prose and dialogue for everything.

I've got a blog post in the works about Ironsworn, which should be coming next
week.


## Miscellaneous

This wek I [switched my backups][] from [duplicity][] to [restic][].

What sold me on restic is that, by treating backups as a collection of
file-chunks plus metadata on how to turn those chunks back into a directory
tree, rather than as a copy of a directory tree, is that it eliminates the full
/ incremental backup distinction.  When it comes to taking a backup, every
backup is incremental (only new chunks need storing); but when it comes to
restoring a backup, every backup is full (it's not just a diff of the previous
backup).

The downside is that taking a backup is more computationally intensive, since
it's got to break files up into chunks and hash them.  But it means you transmit
and store far less data if things don't change much between backups, which my
files don't.

My hope is that this will reduce my cloud spend, as S3 for backups is one of my
bigger costs.  The old duplicity backups will get rotated into S3 Glacier
(cheap-but-hard-to-access cold storage) over the coming months, and my restic
backups are stored in Backblaze B2 instead which is cheaper than S3 for hot
storage.

I'll comment on this later when I've seen what the monetary effect is.

[switched my backups]: https://github.com/barrucadu/nixfiles/pull/257
[duplicity]: https://duplicity.us/
[restic]: https://restic.net/


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Not More Names but New Names](https://reaverswutc.bearblog.dev/not-more-names-but-new-names/)
- [The Bane of Names](https://reaverswutc.bearblog.dev/the-bane-of-names/)
- [Wolves and Folk Religion](https://reaverswutc.bearblog.dev/wolves-and-folk-religion/)
