---
date: 2024-02-18
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Mystery Cults in the Ancient World][] by Hugh Bowden

  Which was a good overview of the more prominent mystery cults and also mystery
  cults in general and their place in society.  It starts out by contrasting the
  modern "doctrinal" style of religion and contrasting it with the "imagistic"
  style which is based upon infrequent, emotionally intense, rituals.  I found
  it interesting just how central the *unknowability* of the gods was to Greek
  and Roman religion: people did certain rituals and used certain names, but
  that's just because it's what seemed to work.  Quite a few mystery cults
  venerated gods whose names weren't even known, or who were identified
  inconsistently.

  I also found it really interesting just how many people were initiated in the
  mysteries.  It sounded like almost anyone could join, so long as you could
  make it to the relevant location, and yet these huge numbers of initiates kept
  the secrecy so well that we now know very little about what they *actually*
  thought or did.

[Mystery Cults in the Ancient World]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123028454-mystery-cults-in-the-ancient-world


## Roleplaying Games

### ALIEN

This week we finished off Act 1 and did Act 2 of the *Destroyer of Worlds*
scenario.  It went pretty well, I kept the pace up to keep it fun and to keep
the players feeling slightly off balance, like they were losing control of the
situation (which they were).  I skipped over most of the Act 2 content, since I
think it's the weakest part of the scenario, and we ended with the PCs
approaching Fort Nebraska (along with a few marine NPCs they adopted along the
way) desperate to find some way to access the space elevator and get the hell
off this colony.

Two PCs have died so far, and two more are infected.  They'll pop at
appropriately dramatic moments next session.  It'll be fun!


## bookdb (& bookmarks)

I've finished my rewrite of [bookdb][] in Rust and, for good measure, I rewrote
[bookmarks][] in Rust over Friday too.  bookmarks was actually the simpler of
the two, surprisingly.

Here are some thoughts:

- I have quite a lot of code converting from sensible data structures to things
  that work well with [tera][], the templating library I picked.  I should look
  for a different templating library that lets me use normal Rust data
  structures and call normal Rust functions.

- Being able to embed static files (stylesheets, templates, images, etc) at
  compile-time, giving a self-contained executable, is very nice.

- Being able to automatically deserialise form data and suchlike is not actually
  very useful, since you almost always want to customise the error response page
  when the submitted data is invalid.

- Moreover, serde_urlencoded [has chosen to not support specifying multiple
  values for a field][].  Which makes the built in querystring and form
  deserialisation basically useless.

- Dealing with multipart forms feels unnecessarily painful.

- Being able to automate most (or even all) of the (de)serialisation between
  domain objects and Elasticsearch is great.

On the whole, I think the non-web parts (interacting with Elasticsearch,
modelling domain objects) is better in Rust.  But the web parts were better in
Python.  Though, all the frustrations with the web parts are based on one web
framework ([actix-web][]) and one templating library ([tera][]), I didn't really
look for alternatives that I might like better.

[bookdb]: https://github.com/barrucadu/bookdb
[bookmarks]: https://github.com/barrucadu/bookmarks
[has chosen to not support specifying multiple values for a field]: https://github.com/nox/serde_urlencoded/issues/109
[actix-web]: https://actix.rs/
[tera]: https://keats.github.io/tera/docs/


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [Exploring Kubernetes Operator Pattern](https://iximiuz.com/en/posts/kubernetes-operator-pattern/)

### Miscellaneous

- [In Praise of Idleness](https://harpers.org/archive/1932/10/in-praise-of-idleness/)
