---
date: 2024-03-10
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Twin Spirits: The Complete Weird Stories of W. W. Jacobs][] edited by S. T. Joshi

  That's the guy who wrote *The Monkey's Paw*.

  I hadn't heard of any of his other stories, and I don't think I'd actually
  read *The Monkey's Paw* before, but it's a book of short stories edited by
  S. T. Joshi so I figured this was right up my alley.  And it kind of was, I
  guess.

  W. W. Jacobs definitely writes in that old-fashioned horror / mystery story
  style where care is given to how the narrator learned the details of the story
  (the story-within-a-story framing device is very common) and nothing *too*
  mysterious happens, all the weird happenings can be explained as coincidences
  or tricks.  They were mostly a bit mundane for me, some were more entertaining
  than others, but ultimately in most of the stories very little happened.

[Twin Spirits: The Complete Weird Stories of W. W. Jacobs]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40642221-twin-spirits


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

We had a B-team adventure this week, with some of the party heading deeper into
the dungeon, but most hanging out at the inn near the Arena waiting for the Lord
to get back to them about a meeting.  He won't.  The guard captain they sent a
letter to will swing by in a couple of days, eat and drink at their expense, and
explain that the Lord is very busy and *only* cares about putting on a good
show, not about anything the PCs think they might know: if they want a meeting
they'll have to get his attention by doing something for the Arena first, like
buying them some new gladiators or capturing a cool monster.

So, the exploratory squad went down another two floors, and things went pretty
much as I expected.  Everywhere they went looked very dangerous, so they turned
back, until they accidentally triggered one of those dangerous things.  Now one
PC has a cursed stone torch stuck to their hand, and the party are being pursued
by three high-level adventurer-bandits.

The players hope they can get sanctuary from the troll who operates the lifts
down here, but I'm not so sure about that...


## Miscellaneous

It's been a very productive week for `thing-doer`, this week I've implemented:

- **Actually running containers**, not just processes, along with resource
  limits (and scheduling based on those limits) and port forwarding.
- **Container networking**, using [flannel][], so that every container can reach
  every other container.
- **Cluster DNS**, built atop my [resolved][], with worker nodes serving records
  for pods and nodes.

And just today I reached a really cool milestone: I set up worker nodes on two
different computers, scheduled an nginx container to one and an ubuntu container
to the other, and was then able to `curl` the nginx container via its
autogenerated domain name!  That's a true end-to-end test, and it was not easy
to get there: I think I've learned more about Linux networking in the last two
days than I have in the last two years.

I'll put the code up on GitHub shortly, as soon as I've resolved a few
niggles---how I got the networking working was very manual, maybe I can automate
it more---as I've now reached the minimum set of functionality that a container
orchestrator needs.

I think the next feature I want to implement is a cluster-accessible API server,
so that containers can call out to create new pods (and other resources); but
the next thing to do is probably to set up a group of two or three VMs, with
configuration as code, so I can do end-to-end testing without a load of manual
work.

[flannel]: https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/
[resolved]: https://github.com/barrucadu/resolved


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [Do-nothing scripting: the key to gradual automation](https://blog.danslimmon.com/2019/07/15/do-nothing-scripting-the-key-to-gradual-automation/)
- [ARCHITECTURE.md](https://matklad.github.io//2021/02/06/ARCHITECTURE.md.html)
- [Large Rust Workspaces](https://matklad.github.io/2021/08/22/large-rust-workspaces.html)
