---
date: 2024-03-17
---

## Books

No books this week!  I started reading [Perdido Street Station][] but it is very long,

[Perdido Street Station]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perdido_Street_Station


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

We had a really great session this week.  Not so much action, but a lot of
discovery.

Firstly, we have the B-team, those unfortunates who had ventured down to the
level below and got attacked by some adventurer-bandits.  They turned the
situation around by expending one charge of a very valuable, and irreplaceable,
magic item.  And then the character who got a cursed torch stuck to their hand
decided to take a few days off to go back to town and get it removed.  I'm fine
with this.  In a sense, they solved the problem with ease, but they used up some
valuable resources to do so---I can imagine them wishing they still had that
charge in the future.

Then, we have the rest of the party, who stayed up at the Inn of the Lost to
wait for a message from the Lord of the Arena (or, more likely, one of his
lieutenants).  They passed a couple of days without much luck then, by sheer
coincidence, they encountered the Lord while wandering around the Arena!

They begged a moment of his time, explained that they had found what appeared to
be high-tech "pods" with more of his kind sealed away in them, and his only
question was "do you think this could help the Arena in some way?"

He just *did not care at all.*  The players were floored.

But, pulling back the curtain a little, it is totally in character.  The Lord of
the Arena is around 3000 years old, preserved by technologies that were never
intended to keep someone alive so long.  He can't remember anything of his
origins---can't even remember his own name---all he knows, all he cares about,
is the Arena.

The Lord did mention in passing one very interesting tidbit to them, which was
that another of his kind, Lord Psalor Ki, lives above and often visits.  He said
that Psalor Ki had a great interest in the functioning of living creatures.
Asking around the Inn of the Lost the players learned that Lord Psalor Ki is
widely known by another title---The Vivisectionist---and to run if they ever
encounter him outside one of the dungeon's neutral zones.

Then, we went back to exploring.  The players have realised that the Arena is
kind of a travel hub, with easy access to the domains of several of the dungeon
factions, and they chose to head along a long and twisting series of coridors
and stairs leading up to the precincts of the Cult of Set, which will be our
focus for the next session.

But all this exploration is really just killing time until Tresti, the party's
magic-user, recovers from her wounds and they can go back to the high-tech pod
room armed with a *Comprehend Languages* spell.  I'm looking forward to it.


## Miscellaneous

Another good week for [thing-doer][]---now on GitHub!  The highlights are:

- **An API server**, so pods can create new pods (and other types of
  resources)---and, excitingly, pods can be killed via the API!
- **A script to configure the network**, automating the previous manual process,
  making it much quicker to spin up a test cluster.  But this pales in
  comparison to:
- **A development VM!** So now I can just run `nix build .#vm` to generate a
  qemu VM with etcd, flannel, and thing-doer already installed, and with systemd
  units to start up the thing-doer services.  The VM connects to a bridge
  interface on the host machine with a random MAC address, so you can just
  launch multiple instances of the VM to easily test multi-host clusters.

There have been a lot of behind-the-scenes improvements too:

- A lot of refactoring to reduce duplicated code, cut down on unnecessary error
  handling, simplify things, and so on.
- Changing reaperd and schedulerd to use a single connection to etcd for
  watching cluster state changes, rather than one connection per key prefix.
  workerd will come next.  This reduces load on etcd, and so makes the cluster
  scale better.
- Rearranging and renaming the various command-line arguments to improve
  consistency, allow specifying everything through environment variables, and
  also allow specifying IP addresses through files (useful for systemd units).

I've started looking into integration testing too.  I have a basic one right now
that builds the development VM and checks that all the services can start up and
are visible through the API server, but I'd like to add at least one for testing
the container networking in a multi-host cluster.

The NixOS VM tooling is quite impressive.

I think the next big milestone will be implementing some analogue of kubernetes
deployments / replicasets, which I hope to implement almost entirely on top of
pods running in the cluster---rather than new features in the cluster servers.
Off the top of my head, I'll need to add API endpoints to manage DNS records and
to watch resource changes, and I hope that's all.

[thing-doer]: https://github.com/barrucadu/thing-doer


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- Unveiling the Power of the NixOS Integration Test Driver
  - [Part 1](https://nixcademy.com/2023/10/24/nixos-integration-tests/)
  - [Part 2](https://nixcademy.com/2023/12/01/nixos-integration-tests-part-2/)
