---
date: 2024-03-31
---

## Work

Well, this was the first week on my new team.  I didn't *do* much really, mostly
getting up to speed with things and completing a couple of small tech debt
tickets.  It seems a good team though, with some interesting work coming up, and
I'm looking forward to getting involved more.

Things will probably be a little slow until I'm back from my holiday to Japan,
as that's only a couple of weeks away so there's no point me picking up a big
project if I'm going to have to immediately put it on hold.


## Books

No books this week, but I've got a few in the works.


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

A bit of a mixed bag this week.

One player---the one who [I recruited back in November][]---said they just
weren't really feeling it and would be dropping out for a while.  So we're back
down to two players, not including myself.  The two who are left are really
enjoying the game, but it is a bit sad that I can't seem to hold onto a real
group any more.

On the other hand, we had a pretty good session.  Player schemes were furthered,
important NPCs met, and secrets revealed.  Specifically, the party approached
the local thieves guild (the Benevolent Brotherhood) about buying large amounts
of contact poison, to deal with a slime monster they encountered last week: they
were told "sure, we can get you that, at a discount even, but you need to do a
favour for us first..." and now might be off to kidnap some guy.  They also met
Kerbog Khan, a powerful wizard who lives deep in Arden Vul and who barters
information and magical services in exchange for secrets, magical resources,
magic items, and ancient alien tech; and tentatively arranged to give him a
magic item they found in exchange for the answers to some questions.

Kerbog Khan requires a blood sample from everyone he deals with, but I'll leave
that as a surprise for when the players are ready to exchange.

The goblin / halfling war has continued to escalate, and next week it looks like
the players will be donating weapons to the goblins to help in the war effort.
That'll definitely get them some points, though not as many as if they were
actually fighting alongside the goblins.

[I recruited back in November]: notes/271.html


## thing-doer

Not so much progress this week, just the one new thing:

- [Implement a basic API client](https://github.com/barrucadu/thing-doer/pull/36)

    Writing `curl` commands was a bit tedious, so I implemented a basic client
    with helpers to do common tasks like create-or-patch a resource, or create a
    single-container pod with a given image.

To be honest, I'm running out of motivation a little for this project.  I
haven't reached my initial goal yet of implementing a ReplicaSet-like thing, so
I want to at least reach that point, but I don't think I'll get much further.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Creating a distributed campaign style](https://sirlywhirly.blogspot.com/2024/03/creating-distributed-campaign-style.html)
- [10 things I wish I knew as a starting game master with ADHD](https://sirlywhirly.blogspot.com/2023/03/top-10-tips-for-game-mastering-with-adhd.html)
- [How to Set Up and Use Faction Turns](https://elmc.at/how-to-set-up-and-use-faction-turns/)
- [Overloading the Random Encounter Table](https://www.prismaticwasteland.com/blog/overloading-the-random-encounter-table)
- [Double-overloading the Random Encounter Table](https://playfulvoid.game.blog/2024/03/27/double-overloading-the-random-encounter-table/)
