---
date: 2024-04-07
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 17 of [That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime][] by Fuse

    I found this volume okay overall but a big chunk of it just felt like wasted
    space.  Rather than a single story, it's a few short stories focussed on
    different characters.  I like that, it's an opportunity to show off some
    things we don't usually get to see; but the longest of the stories by a
    significant margin was all about the actions of a character who had
    travelled to a parallel world... so it's not really connected to the events
    of the main story at all, and it wasn't even an especially good side-story.
    It felt like it could have been removed and the volume would only have been
    better.

[That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/That_Time_I_Got_Reincarnated_as_a_Slime


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week a few threads came together:

- We have the goblin / halfling struggle, which has recently turned into all-out
  war.
- We have the players' deal with the local thieves guild, to supply them a large
  amount of contact poison in exchange for information on how the halflings are
  making their poison.
- And under the surface, we have a power struggle in the goblin court, with the
  king's legitimacy threatened by him not having some lost "goblin sceptre".

The players decided to make a deal with the goblins: to contribute to the war
effort in exchange for anything the goblins find relating to the poison
manufacture.  The goblins agreed, and scored a great victory right in the nick
of time, as just that very same day one halfling managed to escape the siege to
go and recruit some mercenaries.  So I guess he'll come back to Arden Vul in a
couple of days to find his old boss dead.

The players have now helped out the goblins twice, so the king pulled them
aside, rewarded them richly, and then turned the conversation towards ways they
could help the goblins even further.  "You guys seem good at finding things," he
opened with, "well could you perhaps find this sceptre for me?"  And so he gave
the story, that some upstart had challenged his rule due to not having this
sceptre that nobody had heard of, and the party have now agreed to look for it.

On the way out they had an informative but slightly threatening chat with Sir
Sorrow of the Sun-Scarred Knights who said that her order was concerned with
maintaining stability in the halls, and to not take any actions that might
encourage the goblins to further reckless warfare.

Next week will be the last session before I go to Japan, so we're going to try
to wrap up a couple of threads, and then pick it back up in May.


## Miscellaneous

Unfortunately, I've spent most of this week recovering from being unwell.  I'm
nearly back to normal now, but there's some sort of lingering throat infection.
Hopefully that's gone by the time I fly out to Japan.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Creating Tension through Character Advancement Rules](https://eightheye.blogspot.com/2024/03/creating-tension-through-character.html)
