---
date: 2024-05-19
---

## Work

[A while ago][] I mentioned a project I was leading, that had to be handed over
when I changed teams.  Well, that project has launched now (it actually did so a
few weeks ago when I was in Japan), and it was a big project that unlocks a
major business priority so I wanted to brag about it a little.

GoCardless is, conceptually, a fairly simple product: you want to collect
payments via direct debit, but don't want to integrate with the banks yourself,
so you use GoCardless as a middle-man to handle that for you.  GoCardless
submits the payment instructions at the appropriate time, collects the money,
and sends it to your bank account in one lump sum, after deducting fees.

GoCardless started as a UK company processing BACS direct debits.  But now it
operates in many countries.  Here comes the problem I was working on: payouts
(sending that lump sum of collected payments to the merchant) for *all
currencies* happens at 11AM UK time, because that's what worked well for BACS.
Receiving your money at 11AM UK time is fine for UK merchants, but if you're an
Australian merchant that's after the end of the working day, after the bank
cutoff for same-day transfers, so you actually receive your money the following
morning.  A whole day later than it would be if AUD payouts were done at a
sensible local time.

Not great.

So the project I was leading was to fix this.  To break assumptions throughout
our code that payouts operates in UK time.  That a single run of the payouts
process doesn't cross UTC midnight.  That payouts in all currencies happen at
roughly the same time of day.

And you know what?  We did it.  It's live, it has been live for weeks now, and
Australian merchants get their money 24 hours earlier than they used to.  And
now that the foundational work has been done, localising payouts for other
currencies is just a small bit of incremental work.

[A while ago]: notes/288.html


## Books

No books this week!

I've really fallen out of the habit of reading before bed, I need to bring that
back.


## Roleplaying Games

I've spent the last few days honing my (almost nonexistent) frontend skills,
learning some [React][] and [Next.js][] by building a little dungeon time
tracker:

![Dungeon time tracker](notes/294/dungeon-time-tracker.png)

It tracks what the current time of day is, rolls for random encounters, and
counts down timers.  I used it during today's Arden Vul session and it worked
great.  I'm not sure what to add next, but I'm always looking for ways to
streamline the in-session bookkeeping.

[React]: https://react.dev/
[Next.js]: https://nextjs.org/

### The Halls of Arden Vul

We had a very focussed session this week, the players came in with the goal of
linking up two fragments of the same dungeon floor, and they got it!

It was a bit touch-and-go for a while though, if they hadn't decided to press on
with clearing a collapsed corridor we may have ended the session with them still
having no idea how this system of caves and interrupted construction related to
the rest of the Thothian regions.

Along the way they found and rescued some trapped goblins (who would likely have
starved if the party didn't clear that corridor), bringing them home and getting
another reward (and a new request) from the king.  Next session: following up on
some interesting things they learned during their explorations, and then some
faction diplomacy!


## Miscellaneous

I redesigned the site!  I'm now using [Magick.css][], with a few small tweaks.

[Magick.css]: https://css.winterveil.net/


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [Making a Postgres query 1,000 times faster](https://mattermost.com/blog/making-a-postgres-query-1000-times-faster/)
