---
date: 2024-05-26
---

## Books

This week I read:

- The [Southern Reach Trilogy][] by Jeff VanderMeer

  Which I last read in 2019.  I watched [the film adaptation of
  *Annihilation*][] too, though it's pretty different to the book.  I think the
  second book, *Authority*, might actually be my favourite, the cryptic
  bureaucracy of the Southern Reach and the mysterious central administration is
  very Kafkaesque.

  I read the whole trilogy thinking it was set in some unnamed US costal
  location, but was surprised to see that the wikipedia article says it's set in
  "an uninhabited and abandoned coastal area of an unnamed country".  I'm not
  sure I can recall any concrete references to American places or institutions
  (e.g. the government agency overseeing things is just called "Central");
  though character and place names are definitely American, and it feels like
  it's in the southern US.

[Southern Reach Trilogy]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Southern_Reach_Trilogy
[the film adaptation of *Annihilation*]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annihilation_(film)


## Roleplaying Games

I picked up a copy of [The Monster Overhaul][]:

![The Monster Overhaul by Skerples](notes/295/the-monster-overhaul.jpg)

[The Monster Overhaul]: https://coinsandscrolls.blogspot.com/2023/02/osr-monster-overhaul-megapost.html

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week we had an extra-long in-person session: one player was away, the other
visiting for the weekend.  It was great!  We got through quite a lot.

Firstly, the party secured the goblin / beastman peace treaty, after first
talking to a beastman deserter they met last session to get a sense of their
culture.  The infodump confirmed a few rumours (which gives bonus XP in my house
rules), but it didn't answer *all* their questions.  I left some dangling hooks.

Along the way the party met Deino, the "mother" of the beastmen (and were warned
to be careful of what they drink in her presence); Trisko, the ratman leader of
the Long Ranger Cavern Patrol who the party will likely be interacting with
going forwards; Rizzit, the prophesying demon the goblin king uses to determine
if foreign policy decisions are good or not; and various assorted rank-and-file
goblins and beastmen.

Secondly, the party decided to get back to some good old exploration.  We did a
bit of a whirlwind tour of a few easily-accessible locations: they tried out the
two teleporter addresses they knew, confirming that one went to the Goblin Halls
(as they knew) and one went... somewhere else, next to an underground river.  In
that somewhere else they rescued some lost adventurers wearing strange armour.
Then they rushed down to the Troll Market to check out what's available and just
to get a sense of what's going on with the acknowledged strongest faction of
Arden Vul.  There they found wonderful items and services (if you have the
coin), interesting gossip, and another of the mysterious Sun-Scarred Knights.

All in all, the party didn't actually find any treasure.  But they did complete
a bunch of feats of exploration, earning quite a lot of bonus XP.  They also
made progress in diegetic ways:

- As reward from the Goblin King for establishing the treaty they were given
  guest rooms in the Goblin Halls, so they no longer have to sleep on the floor
  of the common area, and also one session with Rizzit, the prophesy-demon.

- As reward from Count Skleros and Deino for the same, they have been granted
  free travel through the Beastman Halls to the Great Cavern beyond (with the
  stipulation that any "cloud cap mushrooms" the party finds must be sold to the
  beastmen).

- They finally got a Troll Passport, giving them access to the Court of the
  Troll Thegn and the Troll Market.  This is the major hub of activity in the
  lower levels.

- They got some more adventure hooks from the beastmen and the trolls.

There was one big mechanical win too: Ethelflad, the party cleric and sole
survivor of the original PCs, finally hit level 6.  So now his Turn Undead can
kill ghouls.  The players were waiting for that before going to try to recover a
bunch of magic items lost in an earlier fight.
