---
date: 2024-06-02
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volumes 5 and 6 of [Frieren: Beyond Journey's End][] by Kanehito Yamada and Tsukasa Abe

  Which completes the first-class mage exam arc that started in the latter part
  of volume 4.  Unfortunately this is, I think, a story that worked better in
  the anime.  There's a few battles and other cool demonstrations of magic,
  which are just better when animated to a dramatic soundtrack.  I'm not really
  a fan of battles in manga or comic books, I don't find the action shot panels
  particularly thrilling; I even prefer dynamic scenes in prose, where there
  aren't all these still images getting in the way of the imagination.

[Frieren: Beyond Journey's End]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frieren


## Roleplaying Games

I picked up a few new games this week:

- The [D&D Rules Cyclopedia][], to mine for house rules for my OSR games
- [Lichdom][], a solo RPG about an evil sorcerer trying to become a lich
- [Ironsworn: Starforged][], a refinement and reskinning of Ironsworn for sci-fi

I've not played any of them yet, but I have been reading Starforged, and will
hopefully get to start a co-op game of that in the near future.

[D&D Rules Cyclopedia]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dungeons_%26_Dragons_Rules_Cyclopedia
[Lichdom]: https://www.drivethrurpg.com/en/product/399971/Lichdom--A-solo-RPG-about-the-perilous-journey-of-a-sorcerer-towards-immortality
[Ironsworn: Starforged]: https://www.ironswornrpg.com/

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Another single-player session this week, with the other player away at [EMF
Camp][] for the weekend.

This week the party went to check out a room they found on a map taken from the
body of a dead adventurer labelled "one of the mysteries?" and---very
unluckily---had half the party killed by a magical effect.  Oh well.  On the
bright side, the dead party members were all relatively new retainers, so we
hadn't developed any emotional bonds yet...

I may have permanently scared the players away from a cool room.

Then followed a period of impromptu downtime, to go back to town and recruit
some new retainers.  One neat thing Arden Vul has is that, for each faction, it
says roughly how many members there are and how quickly they can replace losses.
Maybe I need to start tracking that for the retainer population...

But then things did take a turn for the better.  Thanks to a well-executed plan,
a tough monster was dealt with at no risk to the party, and they made off like
bandits with the contents of a magical laboratory and earned more gold than they
had in weeks.

Previously, they'd found this laboratory guarded by a hostile slime monster: so
what they did was buy a lot of ingested poison, and a fresh pig carcass, and
then stuff the carcass with the poison; they then dumped it outside the room,
made a loud noise to attract the slime, ran away, and waited for the noises to
stop.

This is the sort of creative thinking that I like to see.  They could have just
fought the slime, but they knew it was a tough opponent which could dissolve
armour.  So they found a way around it instead.  I don't mind handing out an
automatic victory in cases like that.

[EMF Camp]: https://www.emfcamp.org/

### Pathfinder

I joined a Pathfinder group about 6 months ago and, while it's not really my
preferred system it was still fun enough.  Our campaign ended a few weeks ago so
we've been getting ready for the next one: Kingmaker, one of *the* big
campaigns.  I was quite looking forward to it, I and one of the other players
were going to be kobolds, it was going to be fun...

Then I submitted my character sheet and the GM and I had a big argument about
stats.

Sure, my character wasn't perfect.  They could have been more optimal, but they
weren't incompetent.  I wasn't sabotaging the group.  I'd made a character I
thought would be fun---I even went to the effort of finding some character art,
which I don't normally do---so to have an hours long argument about specific
choices of modifiers, culminating in the GM saying they simply wouldn't accept
the character, really took the fun out of it.

So I left the group.

What makes it particularly frustrating is that I *bought* the Pathfinder
rulebook just a few days previously.  I figured that since we were about to
start something new, I should finally pick it up rather than making do with
online reference material.  But now I have this thing I'm never going to use,
just a reminder of an argument.


## Miscellaneous

Earlier today I picked up [Against the Storm][], a kind of roguelike
city-builder where you need to build a succession of cities to complete
objectives which get you experience points to spend on a variety of upgrades,
and periodically all the cities get wiped out by the eponymous storm.  The aim
is to, through getting upgrades, build better and better cities and ultimately
drive back the storm.

I'm only a few hours into it but I like it so far.  I do tend to obsess over and
then burn out on these sorts of games though; but so long as I get a decent
amount of fun out of it, that's not so bad I suppose.

[Against the Storm]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1336490/Against_the_Storm/


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [A Review: Wolves Upon the Coast as a System](https://reaverswutc.bearblog.dev/a-review-wolves-upon-the-coast-as-a-system/)
- [The Implied Setting of Contact Higher Plane](https://arch-brick.blogspot.com/2024/02/the-implied-setting-of-contact-higher.html)
