---
date: 2024-06-09
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Ironsworn: Starforged][] by Shawn Tomkin

  With my Friday Pathfinder game no longer happening, I started up a Starforged
  game---more on that below---so I read the rulebook in advance of that.  It's,
  you know, a rulebook; nothing special.  The system is almost the same as
  Ironsworn, though I found this rulebook better laid out: with Ironsworn I
  found myself flipping all over the place during character and world creation,
  but Starforged has a chapter dedicated to set-up which goes through it all in
  a sensible order.

- [ALIEN: Building Better Worlds][] from Free League

  This is both a supplement for running ALIEN games that involve colonisation
  and a campaign about recontacting some old lost colonies (which, spoilers,
  have some xenomorph activity going on).  It's a good read, I might run the
  campaign some day, but what I liked the most was the appendix on running a
  colony, which is essentially a little minigame that really isn't *that*
  specific to the ALIEN system or setting.  We could pull it into our Starforged
  game very easily, for instance, if we wanted to start colonising worlds.

[Ironsworn: Starforged]: https://www.ironswornrpg.com/
[ALIEN: Building Better Worlds]: https://freeleaguepublishing.com/shop/alien-rpg-2/building-better-worlds/


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Yet another single-player session, but the other player should be back next
time.

This week the party figured out two puzzles, which was pretty fun, and I also
got to spring some faction happenings upon them.

A while back, about two months of real-time and one of game-time, the party was
informed of a thorn in the goblin king's side: some small-time goblin called
Gislu has been saying that his reign isn't legitimate, because the *true* king
would have the "Goblin Sceptre".  This Gislu had attracted a following, and the
king wanted him dealt with *before* he finds this sceptre.

The way I tend to resolve this sort of thing is to decide what the likely next
step is and roll for how many days or weeks pass until the situation changes.
If I don't want to just decide the next step, I'll think about what the actor's
goal is and roll a few d6s to determine how well it goes: in this case, I
decided Gislu doesn't really have many resources, and so just merited 1d6.  But
I rolled a 6, meaning this went about as well as it could for Gislu: he finds
the sceptre (or at least, he finds the artefact he believes to be the sceptre).
From there I extrapolated (mostly thinking things over during my morning
showers): a few days after finding it, rumours would begin to spread; Gislu
would go to one of the existing factions for backing to press his claim; then a
few weeks after that (I rolled for how many) this faction would act, seeking to
prop up Gislu as a puppet king and basically enslave the goblins.

Today we got to the "rumours would begin to spread" stage.  The goblin king has
demanded the party deal with Gislu immediately.  If they keep putting this off,
as they have been so far, then in a few more weeks they won't be such favoured
members of the goblin court...

### Starforged

This *was* going to be just me, free now due to [leaving my Pathfinder group][],
and an ex-player who hadn't been able to make Sunday sessions for a long time
but was ready to give Friday sessions a try.

Then the Pathfinder game fell apart completely and my two other Arden Vul
players wanted to join.

So this week the four of us worked through the session 0 exercises: deciding the
high-level "truths" of our world, creating characters, creating the sector of
space and settlements we'll be dealing with initially, and deciding on the
inciting incident.  We got some play in, too.

The "truths" exercise is great.  The Starforged setting is kind of an ALIEN /
Firefly / [Bodacious Space Pirates][] mash-up (at least in my mind), but you
refine it further by deciding on these 14 "truths" that cover everything from
why people are here in this galaxy at all, to whether space magic exists, to how
laws work, and more.  It takes the very fuzzy generic setting and resolves just
enough detail for you to start to engage with this world.

For our inciting incident, we decided that we needed to recover some precursor
space-drug to cure our contact's daughter's space-tuberculosis, as she lay dying
in space-hospital.  We made it to this precursor derelict and found the drug,
and ended the session on a cliffhanger, with a pocket of explosive gas we'd
disturbed exploding, blocking off our route out of the derelict.

It was... a bit clunky.  We were referencing the rules a lot.  I found myself
slipping into GM-mode constantly.  We did a lot of rolling and not much
narrating.  But the first few sessions of a new system are always clunky, I'm
hopeful that we can get over that hump and will be having a great time
co-operatively GMing ourselves into space-adventure-of-the-week.

[leaving my Pathfinder group]: notes/296.html#pathfinder
[Bodacious Space Pirates]: https://myanimelist.net/anime/8917/Mouretsu_Pirates


## Miscellaneous

I've spent several hours this week playing [Against the Storm][], which I picked
up [last week][].  It's pretty good, I recommend it!

[Against the Storm]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1336490/Against_the_Storm/
[last week]: notes/296.html#miscellaneous


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [Your kernel panics in ZFS on Linux probably aren't actual kernel panics](https://utcc.utoronto.ca/~cks/space/blog/linux/ZFSPanicsNotKernelPanics)
- [Things you can do to make your Linux servers reboot on kernel problems](https://utcc.utoronto.ca/~cks/space/blog/linux/RebootOnPanicSettings)
