---
date: 2024-06-16
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Blue Mars][] by Kim Stanley Robinson

  The final book of the trilogy, and a little different to the prior two books.
  While the first two were more or less thinly veiled political theory, this one
  was rather more personal, focussing on the ever dwindling survivors of the
  original colonists: now all 200+ years old.  The anti-aging treatments were no
  longer enough, as the super-old faced increasing cognitive issues and even
  sudden death due to poorly-understood causes.

  Though, politics is still a major theme, focussing on the relationship between
  Earth and Mars, the creation of a Martian constitution and planetary
  government, and (after a time skip) the relationship between Earth, Mars, and
  other colonies elsewhere in the solar system, after developments in spacecraft
  engine technology rendered colonisation further afield feasible.

  They do end up solving the issue with the anti-aging treatments towards the
  end of the book though, which brings me to my main criticism of the series:
  the pace of scientific breakthroughs is too fast.  In the first book, we see a
  colony mission to Mars using technology that doesn't seem wildly beyond what
  we have today.  Then they cure aging.  Then there's space elevators, 0.25c
  spaceship engines, artificial intelligence, colonisation of the entire solar
  system, easy genetic modification of adult lifeforms... so much, in
  comparatively so little time, a mere 200 years or so.

[Blue Mars]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mars_trilogy


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Back to a full house.

This week the party dealt with the goblin situation by assassinating Gislu, the
rebel, and all his followers thanks to an ok plan and a few good reaction rolls.
I need to decide what the fallout will be though: the Cult of Set were deciding
how to capitalise on this goblin situation, then a few party members were seen
asking around about the goblins and even visiting them mere hours before all the
goblins suddenly dropped dead due to poison.  Not very subtle, really.

Then they went to the surface, solved a puzzle which opened up a secret door to
another level, and nearly got killed by animated statues.  After making their
escape they ran into an annoyed dragon who wasn't too happy about their
"landscaping", as he put it, and demanded a pile of gold.  I demanded so much I
thought they'd have to go adventuring to find a haul to pay off the dragon with,
but they could actually afford it with what they had in the bank.

On the whole, I wasn't very satisfied with this session.  The players spent a
lot of time discussing how to deal with Gislu, I had to keep nudging them to
actually make decisions and do things rather than discuss in circles.  The
dragon situation was intended to trigger a time-sensitive delve to find a new
treasure haul, but it didn't, so it just felt like I was arbitrarily fining them
almost all of their treasure.

Well, next time they're off to recover some magic items lost by previous dead
PCs, which is something they've been looking forward to for a while, so that'll
be fun.

### Starforged

I think we're starting to get the hang of the system, though we're still doing a
*lot* of rolling compared to how much narration there was.  But we split the GM
authority much better (I'd asked the others to help me keep myself in check),
and we had a fun tropey adventure involving space cannibals and ancient alien
labyrinths.

We failed in our first vow, so for the moment we're working on one of the PC's
background vows; but I'm trying to keep an eye out for opportunities to swear
new vows and so go on new adventures.


## Miscellaneous

I upgraded my machines to [NixOS 24.05][], and everything seems to be going
fine.

[NixOS 24.05]: https://nixos.org/blog/announcements/2024/nixos-2405/
