---
date: 2024-06-30
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The One Ring][] from Free League

  This system caught my eye last week, as I was dissatisfied with our Starforged
  game and was looking into potential replacement systems (that's a death knell
  for a campaign in my experience: even if it were all going fine, getting too
  excited about the *next* campaign sucks all fun out of the current one), so I
  picked up the book.

  It looks great, it really feels like it captures the feeling of The Hobbit and
  The Lord of the Rings, in particular the rules for journeys (travel is a big
  deal in the books) and councils (that is, high-stakes social encounters).  I
  also like that the party has a patron who sends them on adventures (and some
  characters from the books are detailed as pre-created patrons), rather than
  them just being a group of randoms "adventuring".

  Hopefully I'll get to run it in two or three weeks, and we'll have fun romping
  around Eriador dealing with goblins and trolls and discovering lost treasures
  and whatnot.

[The One Ring]: https://freeleaguepublishing.com/games/the-one-ring/


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Mysteries were revealed this week, as the players returned to two issues that
have been bugging them for a while: firstly, a bunch of their magic items had
been lost when the party was attacked by several ghouls; secondly, the
spaceship, with its alien mysteries, beckoned now that the party has a
magic-user who can cast *Comprehend Languages*.

Since the players had told me they wanted to pursue those two things at the end
of the previous session, I was able to actually prepare (a rarity for Arden
Vul), and the session went pretty much how I expected it to as a result.  A lot
of fun, though.

Firstly, the ghouls.  They were led by an intelligent ghoul who I knew would be
willing to negotiate if the party showed their strength; and boy, did they.
They actually came out of the situation with a bad deal, I felt: they got their
magic items back in exchange for raising a portcullis and letting the ghouls out
of where they were trapped.  But now there's a bunch of undead roaming around,
whereas the players could have obliterated them and taken their *other* treasure
too.  I'll need to think about how this dungeon level changes in response.

Secondly, the spaceship.  I knew this could go one of two ways: the players
might try to wake up one of the ancient aliens, or they might go see what's
through the iris door and get sucked into exploration.  I figured they would
*probably* go for the exploration (and they did), but I prepared for both just
in case.  Actually, I was able to re-use my prep from when they first discovered
the spaceship, as there was a chance they tried to wake someone up then, too.

I guess all this goes to say, is that running Arden Vul doesn't actually take
much prep any more.  It's a huge dungeon, yes, but there's prep I did the better
part of a year ago that's still valid, simply because every step the players
take opens up new branches: but from a GM perspective, I can get away with only
explicitly preparing the *big* things, for everything else just skimming through
some room descriptions before the session, and thinking about whether anything
the players did will have any knock-on effects after the session, is enough.

## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [In Praise of Legwork](https://samsorensen.blot.im/in-praise-of-legwork)

### Software engineering

- [Start all of your commands with a comma](https://rhodesmill.org/brandon/2009/commands-with-comma/)
- [The plan-execute pattern](https://mmapped.blog/posts/29-plan-execute)

### Miscellaneous

- [The Moral Economy of the Shire](https://nathangoldwag.wordpress.com/2024/05/31/the-moral-economy-of-the-shire/)
