---
date: 2024-07-07
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [D채moren][] by Seth Skorkowsky

  What is the '채' doing there?  I don't know.  Anyway, I've been aware of Seth
  Skorkowsky's books for a while (I follow [his RPG youtube channel][]), and a
  few months back he did a video to celebrate that it had been 10 years since he
  launched his Valducan series with D채moren.  I liked the sound of
  it---modern-day people bearing ancient holy weapons to kill demons---and
  decided to check it out.

  It was pretty good.  It's an action story that doesn't take much thinking to
  enjoy.  I liked the supernatural aspect, and the twist about the holy weapons
  revealed at the end.  I'll probably check out the others in the series.

[D채moren]: https://skorkowsky.com/daemoran/
[his RPG youtube channel]: https://www.youtube.com/@SSkorkowsky


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

I finish every session of Arden Vul thinking that, despite the progress the
players made, they've somehow, yet again, ended up with more new questions than
answers.  And this week's session was no different: realising that they were
having a hard time putting together a timeline of Arden Vul just from exploring
the place, they spent some time in the troll court asking questions.  They got
some answers, sure, but those answers have just led to more questions.

Next week they plan to check out the mysterious "beacon" that they managed to
open up a couple of sessions back.  I am very excited for this, it's a mystery
they came across in the very first session (there's an obelisk just inside the
city gates with an inscription referring to the beacon) and now, 50 sessions
later, they will finally learn the truth...

### The One Ring

This week, after two sessions, we finished the short dungeon one of the players
had made.  Next up is The One Ring!  I've got a rough outline of a first
adventure and have been preparing for session 0, which will be on Friday the
12th.  After the session 0 I'll tune things for the characters and think about
seeds I can plant for a second adventure.  This will be the first totally
homebrew campaign I've ran in a while, it'll be fun.

We're going to play with the same tech stack as Arden Vul: Miro, Google Sheets,
and a Discord dice bot.  I checked out the Foundry system for The One Ring but
it seems to have some bugs, and is a little clunky in parts, so we'll just do it
the low-tech way.


## Miscellaneous

Once again, it is a new anime season.  I haven't really gone through everything
yet, but no doubt I'll pick up two or three shows.
