---
date: 2024-07-14
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Von Bek][] by Michael Moorcock

  Which contains the stories *The Warhound and the World's Pain* and *The City
  in the Autumn Stars*.  I've been going through the Michael Moorcock collection
  in order, so I had actually started on *The Cornelius Quartet* but found it
  really hard going---the Jerry Cornelius stories are weird---and put it down
  for now.  Von Bek, on the other hand, was like a breath of fresh air.  It's
  pulp adventure in the vein of Elric, Corum, and Hawkmoon, but this time set in
  Germany (and the fictional neighbouring nation of Waldenstein) during the
  various European wars of, I think, the 18th century.

  All of Moorcock's characters have their own unique thing, and the Von Bek
  stories have alchemy and a much more overtly religious theme, being about God
  and Satan and the Holy Grail.  Interestingly, both the big recurring human
  villains of Moorcock's stories, Gaynor the Damned and Klosterheim, are German,
  and both are damned to eternal struggle due to betraying their respective
  masters (the Balance itself, which is more-or-less god; and Lucifer).  I guess
  Michael Moorcock just likes Germany.

[Von Bek]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18683073-von-bek


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

I've been looking forward to this week's session since the beginning of the
camapign: the players finally explored the Beacon, something they've known about
since session *one*, as the very first thing you see when entering the surface
ruins is an obelisk with the following inscription:

> The Beacon shall be revealed to those who bring midday life to the Sun, the
> Moon and the Stars.

There was very little action this session.  They managed to slowly beat to death
a couple of animated statues which couldn't fight back due to clever
positioning, but other than that it was all exploration.

The Beacon itself is a small area of around a dozen rooms.  It's also the bridge
of the ancient alien spacecraft that crashed into this world some 3000 years
ago, and has valuable information about them (largely in the form of research
materials left behind by scholars 1200 years ago when the city was evacuated due
to the civil war).  They spent some time talking to a "weird ghost" (the
holographic projection of an ancient alien AI) and now have two new quests:

- To find more aliens than just the two they know about, and let the AI know how
  they're doing
- To wake up one specific alien from the cryopods they found way back in session
  34

But before that they're planning to take an extended period of downtime to learn
the alien language, cure some cursed toad-people, and build an extension for
their new tavern that they opened up in goblin town.

Fun times ahead!

51 sessions in and the players are still learning new things, still finding new
things to do, and still actively engaging with the world and its lore.  Arden
Vul is great.

### The One Ring

We had to postpone session 0, as one of the players had had their internet
knocked out until next week by Hurricane Beryl (they're fine).  But *next* week,
the other player can't make it!  So we won't be starting this campaign until the
26th now.


## Link Roundup

### Miscellaneous

- [These Masks Brought Shame to Gossips, Drunks, and Narcissists](https://www.atlasobscura.com/articles/shame-masks-schandmaske)
