---
date: 2024-07-21
---

## Books

No books this week, because I got back into Baldurs Gate 3 and wasted all my
evenings.

## Roleplaying Games

No regular games this week, I was off visiting some friends for the weekend for
an RPG weekend!  A friend-of-a-friend wanted to try out D&D, so we ran three
games, of which only one was D&D (naturally).

I ran two games

Firstly, the Traveller scenario "High and Dry", in which the party are granted
use of a scout ship *for free*, but first they need to go pick it up.  Hijinks
ensue.  They did a pretty good job actually---only three people died and a few
refugees got mauled by a feral wolf-dog---but putting that aside, the party are
now big damn heroes in a town on a tiny backwater planet.

Secondly, I ran a short scenario for The One Ring based on what I *will* be
using to introduce our regular Friday game.  I'd hoped to be two sessions into
that campaign by now, so I wasn't introducing a bunch of new people to a game
I'd not played before myself; but things turned out the way they did, and it was
fine.  I'm sure I got a bunch of rules wrong, but I kept the game flowing, and
that's what really matters.

Next week is going to be packed with action: two Arden Vul sessions (one of them
is today's session, rescheduled), and the start of The One Ring campaign.

## Miscellaneous

I got back into Baldurs Gate 3 this week!  This is my second time playing, as on
my first attempt I got stuck at the big Ketheric Thorm / Avatar of Myrkul battle
at the end of Act 2.

It turns out the game is *way easier* if you don't skip all the side-quests, and
so *don't* arrive at the big fight with a level 5 party who all have rubbish
gear.

Who'd have thought.
