---
date: 2024-07-28
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Silmarillion][] by J. R. R. Tolkien

  Last read in 2016, according to bookdb; I re-read this in preparation for
  starting a campaign of *The One Ring*.  It's just great.  I love well-done
  mythology, whether it's fictional or real-world.  I'd forgotten that
  Celebrimbor, who along with Sauron forged the rings of power, was a descendant
  of Feanor: the House of Feanor really goes all in when it comes to ruining
  worlds!

[The Silmarillion]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Silmarillion


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week there was a bumper extra session, reorganised from last week: 6 whole
hours of Arden Vul!

The first session, on Monday, takes the record for the session in which the most
in-game time passed.  A whopping 45 days elapsed, as three party members spent
several weeks learning to read and write fluent Rudishva (using some useful
books and also the helpful AI, Akla-Chah).  The rest of the party spent that
time transporting a treasure haul of 200,000 ancient coins to the bank, curing a
bunch of people magically transformed into toads, and gathering rumours about
the Cult of Set: even going so far as buying (and then freeing) a slave, to
question them about the notorious slavers' guild.

Then, as a little by-the-way, they decided to end the session by waking up a
Rudishva from a cryo-pod and parading them around the dungeon (well, not really,
but there were a lot of witnesses), which has set tongues wagging, and will
certainly attract attention.

In the second session, at our usual time on Sunday... it was a bit all over the
place, really.  The players had a plan to explore a certain area, but that got
swiftly abandoned because they found some graffiti referring to vampires; and
they just kind of bounced around several other areas of the dungeon for the
session.

They ended the session pursuing a supposition which is reasonable based on the
information they have, but not correct, so I expect next time will also be a bit
unfocussed when they realise that and have to backtrack.

### The One Ring

This week we kicked off the campaign with session 0, character creation, and
then some adventure!  I started by giving some info about the setting and
themes, and having just re-read *The Silmarillion* and been thinking about this
for a few weeks now I distilled those themes down to:

- The Lord of the Rings is about loss and fading glory and the sense that
  everything now is but an echo of greater and more meaningful things that came
  before.

- The Lord of the Rings is about evil, which can never truly be vanquished from
  the world, and must be constantly forced back by the effort of good people,
  but which can overwhelm even the noblest of hearts in a moment of weakness.

- The Lord of the Rings is about hope: that the world is, overall, just; that
  evil always contains the seeds of its own destruction, and that good will
  triumph in the end, so long as there is one person left fighting for it.

- And The Lord of the Rings is about finding treasure.

It's a flawed world on a generally downward trajectory.  But despite all that,
it's a world we know and love and are excited to adventure in.

We're *really* leaning into the tropes.  The party was brought together by
Gandalf the Grey, and the call to adventure was the blacksmith of Bree bursting
into The Prancing Pony while the PCs were present exclaiming "goblins have taken
my daughter!"

The players killed some orcs, rescued the daughter, and followed tracks to an
orc-den in the Weather Hills.  Hooray!

The system really does feel like Lord of the Rings specifically, and not just a
generic fantasy game set in Middle Earth.  The character backgrounds, the
skills, the "hope" and "shadow" mechanics... it all comes together.

We're really looking forward to seeing where this goes.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [How to Set Up and Use Faction Turns: Addendum](https://elmc.at/how-to-set-up-and-use-faction-turns-addendum/)

### Software engineering

- [strlcpy and how CPUs can defy common sense](https://nrk.neocities.org/articles/cpu-vs-common-sense)
