---
date: 2024-08-04
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volumes 7 to 9 of [Frieren: Beyond Journey's End][] by Kanehito Yamada and Tsukasa Abe

  The anime ended with chapter 3 of volume 7, so most of this was new material
  to me.  A bit strange that the anime stops part-way through a volume, but I
  suppose they wanted to finish off the mage exam arc.  The story keeps its
  theme of the past gradually being forgotten, while showing the present as a
  consequence of this now-forgotten past.  Incidentally, I realise now that this
  is one of the themes I really enjoyed in The Lord of the Rings, but the
  knowledge of that had slipped away...

- [Lud-in-the-Mist][] by Hope Mirrlees

  An "unjustifiably forgotten" novel, as the cover review says, and one I picked
  up from the Dolmenwood inspirations list.  Lud-in-the-Mist is a fairytale-like
  book, in a similar vein to The King of Elfland's Daughter where the mundane
  world is close to the border of fairyland: a place that sensible folk don't
  like to think about.  There's drama, revenge, deception, murder, and at the
  end of it all the understanding that being *too* sensible is bad for the soul,
  and we all need a little of the whimsy of fairyland to be fully human.  It's
  really good.

[Frieren: Beyond Journey's End]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frieren
[Lud-in-the-Mist]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lud-in-the-Mist


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

I like to title my session notes: last week was "The Wrong Caves" because the
players thought they were exploring somewhere else.  This week's is "Everything,
Everywhere, All at Once", due to the one player (the other was off this week)
seemingly trying to pursue all the party's goals at the same time.

So the party are busy wandering around making enemies, while also expanding
their tavern, recovering and selling valuable treasures, and hiring spies and
assassins to make yet more enemies with!

I need to put some notes on my game calendar.  There will be a reckoning sooner
or later.

### The One Ring

This week we picked up with the company at the end of an orc-trail heading into
the Weather Hills.  A dark cave entrance before them, with no other obvious
signs of entry.

With some cunning they managed to thin out the numbers, leading to a battle of
the two PCs against two orcs.  One of the orcs was especially big and tough.  I
intended this fight to be *difficult* but, partly because we're new to the
system, partly because we only have two PCs, it ended up being *lethal.*

The problem was that we had one PC hanging back to fight with their bow, which
meant the other was up front tanking these two orcs.  They chose to fight in
"open stance", which doesn't convey any particular advantages or disadvantages,
and they missed a fair few attacks.  Missing an attack when there are two
opponents who then get to attack you afterwards leads to the damage stacking up
pretty quickly.  As they were getting close to death they tried to run, but
couldn't, their resources were too low.  So instead they switched into "forward
stance", which gives a bonus to attack, and actually did really well---but not
enough to turn the tide.

They wounded the orc commander before being skewered by a scimitar, buying time
for the other PC to make their escape.

We had a short break, and then came back to talk about it.  Thankfully nobody
was too put out.  The player of the dead PC made a new character who, in
time-honoured tradition, is a close relative who wants to avenge them.  The
surviving PC composed a stirring song about the bravery they had witnessed.  We
recognised that the combat was so difficult in part due to only having one melee
fighter, so we introduced a third PC which the two players will share control
over.

They also met up with their patron, Gandalf the Grey (he was bringing the new PC
to Bree), and through him I gave some rumours and foreshadowing of where the
adventure might go.

So, after a break of two weeks to recuperate and prepare, the company returned
to the cave.  This time, they didn't manage to sneak up, and lost the element of
surprise.  But, with new comrades ready to bring the fight against the shadow,
surely they will prevail now!


## Miscellaneous

I migrated [bookdb][] and [bookmarks][] from [actix-web][] to [axum][].

When I rewrote them in Rust from Python, I looked at a few web framework options
and found they all had fairly poor multipart form handling[^api], but that
actix-web looked the best of a bad bunch.  I've revised that opinion now based
on my experience of actually using actix-web (it looks easier at first glance
but there's still a lot of work) and of using axum in [thing-doer][] (it's
pretty nice).

[^api]: Which is maybe not too surprising if most people are writing JSON APIs
  rather than traditional websites.  But I will *not* succumb to temptation and
  make submitting a form require javascript!

Also, as a lesser bonus, axum shares more dependencies with the rest of bookdb
and bookmarks than actix-web does, so switching would reduce dependencies and
improve compile times.

So I rewrote them: [bookdb PR#359][], [bookmarks PR#595][].

[actix-web]: https://actix.rs/
[axum]: https://github.com/tokio-rs/axum
[bookdb PR#359]: https://github.com/barrucadu/bookdb/pull/359
[bookdb]: https://github.com/barrucadu/bookdb
[bookmarks PR#595]: https://github.com/barrucadu/bookmarks/pull/595
[bookmarks]: https://github.com/barrucadu/bookmarks
[thing-doer]: https://github.com/barrucadu/thing-doer


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [What I would do differently as a new Classic Traveller Referee](https://mythicmountainsrpg.substack.com/p/what-i-would-do-differently-as-a)
