---
date: 2024-08-11
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [American Psycho][] by Bret Easton Ellis

  I thought I knew what this was about, as I've seen the film[^film]: a
  wall-street banker with an obsessive personality and a habit of murdering
  prostitutes.  And that's certainly partially true.

  He is obsessive: almost every chapter (which are short, typically only a few
  pages) has a detailed description of what everyone around him is wearing; he
  has strong opinions on brands of bottled water; and he can't help but correct
  someone if they mistake the brands *he's* wearing, or don't appreciate the
  decor of his luxurious apartment.  More strangely, he rents the same videos
  over and over and over again, renting them, returning them when the time is
  up, and then renting exactly the same videos again.

  He is successful: he flaunts his wealth, frequently dropping hundreds of
  dollars on dinner and drinks without a thought, and spending thousands of
  dollars importing furniture from Europe.  But he never seems contented with
  what he has.  If someone else shows success, he wants to outdo them.

  And he is a murderer: he describes brutally killing many women, and disposing
  of the bodies.  Or... is he?

  More than anything, Patrick Bateman is an unreliable narrator.  I don't think
  he actually killed *anybody*.  There are glaring discrepancies between what he
  says happened and how other people act.  He describes killing people in the
  street while on the way to some other event, and the people at that event
  never make comments like "hey Patrick, your perfect hair is a bit dishevelled"
  or "what are those red spots on your suit?"  He describes dumping bodies in
  the stairwell of his apartment building, as if they would just be taken away
  with the trash rather than the police summoned.  He describes the maid calmly
  wiping blood off the walls of his apartment while a dismembered body lies on
  the floor in the very same room.  At one point he confesses that he murdered
  one of his colleages months ago, only to be told that it's a good joke, but
  the victim can't be dead because the person he's telling this story to had
  lunch with them just the other day.  In fact, he frequently "confesses" his
  crimes, but nobody ever takes him seriously---or even appears to hear him,
  most of the time, as if he's not actually saying anything, only *imagining*
  that he is.

  At one point he has a really bizarre conversation about a holiday a coworker
  went on.  The coworker talks exactly as if they're reading an advert aloud.
  Was Bateman actually talking to the TV and just hallucinating that the
  presenter of some tourism show was his friend in the room with him?  I'm
  leaning towards "yes".

  The discrepancies get more and more extreme as the book goes on, as he
  descends further into his madness.  Sometimes we get a hint that other
  characters realise not all is right with him, as they'll look at him
  strangely, or try to comfort him, and we realise that what he described as a
  normal conversation was more likely a bizarre outburst.  The book is just
  really well done.

[^film]: Or, perhaps I *haven't* seen the film, and it's just the pop-culture
  exposure that makes me think I have.  It's hard to say.

[American Psycho]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Psycho


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week the players made the hard decision to sell the location of a room full
of (occupied!) ancient Rudishva cryopods to the mysterious wizard, Kerbog Khan.
They set tongues wagging [a few weeks ago][] when they woke up a Rudishva and
brought them through a well-populated part of the dungeon, and it wasn't long
before Kerbog Khan came calling.

Initially, they rebuffed him.  But the next day he sent them a message saying he
knew the rough location based on where they were seen with the Rudishva and that
it's only a matter of time before he finds it, but that he is still willing to
make a deal if they change their minds.

Reluctantly, they changed their minds.

They got a lot out of him for giving up the location (including a map of all the
non-secret areas of an entire dungeon floor!) but, well, they'd rather have not
had to.  One of the players said that this is their biggest mistake in the
campaign so far.

I see it as an opportunity.  This is going to shake things up!

[a few weeks ago]: notes/304.html

### The One Ring

Unfortunately, I was busy this week, so we had to skip.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Notes on the B/X combat sequence](https://old.reddit.com/r/osr/comments/1elyr1s/my_questions_with_the_bx_combat_sequence/lgvhkfh/)

### Software engineering

- [Properly Testing Concurrent Data Structures](https://matklad.github.io/2024/07/05/properly-testing-concurrent-data-structures.html)
- [The sad state of property-based testing libraries](https://stevana.github.io/the_sad_state_of_property-based_testing_libraries.html)
- [Parallel property-based testing with a deterministic thread scheduler](https://stevana.github.io/parallel_property-based_testing_with_a_deterministic_thread_scheduler.html)
