---
date: 2024-08-18
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 1 of the [20th Century Boys][] "Perfect Edition", which is volumes 1 and 2 of the original manga, by Naoki Urasawa

  The 20th Century Boys film trilogy is my favourite piece of Japanese cinema.
  I bought the manga before I was into manga, and loved it.  But I've never read
  the whole thing before!  Why?

  Because it went out of print, and I was missing a few volumes in the middle.

  I could have read it online.  The content would have been the same, but I just
  don't like reading print material on a screen!  Those missing volumes sapped
  the desire to read out of me, so I left it unfinished, despite knowing how
  great it is.

  This week I bought the "Perfect Edition" reprint that came out a few years
  back.  I bought the whole set, since translated manga doesn't tend to remain
  in print for very long, and I intend to thoroughly enjoy the entire story.

[20th Century Boys]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/20th_Century_Boys


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week was one of the least action-packed sessions in the whole campaign, I
think.  One player was off, and the other spent most of the time talking to a
troll historian.  They learned some new things, confirmed some things they
already knew, and so are armed with knowledge for delving deeper into the
dungeon!  And they will need to delve deeper, as the old secrets have been lost
to time, and the only way to figure them out is to find the few remaining
artefacts.

They also learned that the trolls *love* cakes of protein paste.

One of the big secrets, that the players don't even have the least suspicion of
yet, is that the trolls are bio-engineered creatures, created by the ancient
aliens to be good workers.  I'm hoping that when they do discover that, they'll
say "oh yeah, now it makes sense why ..." about some of the stranger traits of
the trolls, for example that they have remarkably little initiative and are very
easily influenced by surviving ancient aliens.  I've been seeding these odd
behaviours where I can, but without explicitly pointing out that they're
strange, hoping to build up to a fun reveal.

### The One Ring

The style of this game is basically the opposite of Arden Vul.  Middle Earth is
a story-like world, where good triumphs over evil so long as it tries hard
enough and doesn't lose hope.  On that note, this week the company avenged their
fallen comrade by slaying the great orc, Oswaldsbane!

The beast itself went down more easily than they expected, as it was still
wounded from their last encounter.  The blow dealt by a dying man leading to the
eventual defeat of his killer is a great story-like moment; I could have said
that the orc was fully healed now after a few weeks, but that wouldn't have been
as narratively satisfying.

I'm not giving the players plot armour (well, more plot armour than the system
has built into it) of course, but I am definitely mindful of how to make a
session feel like something that could plausibly appear, in some more polished
form, in The Hobbit or The Lord of the Rings.

In the orc's lair the players discovered an odd symbol, and consulted a
crotchety old loremaster in Bree who was able to identify it as the symbol of an
old fortress from back in the good old days.  Then they decided to go off to
Rivendell, which was near the fort, to stop over and hopefully get some aid
before scouting the place out.

I made the loremaster way more of a dick than he really needed to be, which led
to the players deciding to have nothing more to do with him so far as they can
help it, which will be an interesting challenge as I'd intended to use him to
point them to a future phase of this first "campaign arc".

Oh well, a problem for the future.


## Miscellaneous

Friday was a company-wide day off, and I took Thursday off too, so I've had a
four-day weekend.  I've spent most of those four days playing [Dyson Sphere
Program][], which I got really into in early 2022 but kind of burned myself out
on.  Since then the devs have made a bunch of quality-of-life improvements to
the game, and also added an enemy force that grows in proportion to your
strength: so it's a challenge, but not unbeatably strong (unless you do
something to draw the ire of the enemy space forces too soon), which feels about
right for this sort of game.

It's added an interesting wrinkle, as the previous strategy of focussing on
unlocking FTL travel and then rapidly expanding through the universe to drive up
resource production isn't really viable any more, as you also need to make sure
each world you build on is adequately defended.  As a result I've been expanding
quite slowly in my starting solar system, and I'm trying to work out whether
destroying the enemy ground bases is a good strategy, as a fully destroyed
ground base gets rebuilt somewhere else a little later anyway.  Better to have
the enemy in a known place that's surrounded by a ring of permanent defenses
than a new, much weaker, enemy popping up?  I'm not sure.

[Dyson Sphere Program]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1366540/Dyson_Sphere_Program/
