---
date: 2024-08-25
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volumes 2 to 12 of the [20th Century Boys][] "Perfect Edition", which is
  volumes 3 to 24 of the original manga, by Naoki Urasawa

  Well, I've now read the whole thing.  It's just as great as I thought it would
  be.  I was pleased to discover that the film adaptation is quite faithful.  By
  necessity it has less focus on some side details, a bit more focus on some
  bits that make good cinema (like the big music festival towards the end, or
  the final battle against the giant robot), but it still more or less covers
  everything accurately.

  I'm not so sure about the ending though, that the villain, the masked
  "Friend", was the same person throughout the story.  Friend dies several
  volumes in, two characters present confirm his death (no pulse), and when
  Friend reappears later, multiple characters say it seems like a different
  person, and also his personality changes.  So it really does seem that Friend
  died and his second-in-command staged a phony "resurrection" scene to take up
  the mantle.  Which is what the characters think is happening too.  So, to then
  say "actually, it was just one person all along who was secretly resuscitated
  after being shot but then pretended to be dead for weeks" doesn't feel right
  to me.

  Apparently there is hot debate over whether this was the originally intended
  ending, and I can see why.  It's a twist that's not foreshadowed at all, which
  is the trick of a hack writer, whereas the rest of the story up to that point
  is well written and internally consistent.

[20th Century Boys]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/20th_Century_Boys


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week the players finally, *finally*, did something I've been looking
forward to for a long time: they got out their ropes and iron spikes, and
climbed around the Great Chasm.  There are little secret nooks and crannies
accessible from the chasm on nearly every level of this dungeon, which so far
they've not interacted with at all.  It took a rumour of a specific tomb, and
spotting a cave opening in about the right place on the edge of their
torchlight.

Now, the cave they found wasn't the right one, but hey at least they kept
exploring and have found some things.  Hopefully it'll continue.

Behind the scenes, there's a big change brewing in the dungeon, triggered by the
players' actions, which I look forward to unleashing in a few (in-game) weeks.
Something is about to shake Arden Vul that hasn't made its presence felt for
nearly 3000 years.

### The One Ring

I went into this session with anticipation, and a little worry, as I expected
this to be a tipping point: the players had followed the original plot hook I
gave them to a substantial obstacle, and I didn't know what they would do next.
Would they try to push on and find a way through?  Or would they decide to leave
it and follow up one of the other leads they have to further their patrons
goals?  Or would they decide to do something totally different and on their own
initiative?

This is the sort of moment I struggle with, as a GM, and why I tend to like
detailed settings like Dolmenwood and Arden Vul: no matter what the players
decide to do, there's a lot of guidance on how I can react.  Eriador is not very
detailed in the same way.  There's a lot of lore, sure, and even a hexmap, but
it is not a hexcrawling setting where each hex has interesting content already
written for me.

I also didn't really know if I'd communicated enough of the wider issues of the
setting for the players to make a decision other than to just hurl themselves
against this big obstacle.  I didn't want them to feel that that was their only
option.

Thankfully, I was worrying too much, and it turned out well.  The players
decided to leave the obstacle aside for now, and came up with a goal I'd not
considered at all: they want to get the Bree wardens, rangers, hillmen, and
elves of Rivendell (or some subset of those groups) to patrol the Great East
Road from the Shire to the Misty Mountains, keeping travellers safe from the orc
bands they know to be roaming around.  That is a great idea, and also easily
leads into side-quests as all of those groups will want the party to do
something for them before they even consider this.

But first, the party have decided to check out rumours of a haunting...


## Miscellaneous

I've got the urge to redecorate again or, rather, to actually decorate my flat
beyond the living room.  I've not really done much in the bedroom, entrance
hall, or upstairs landing: just got some basic, functional, furniture.  But I
feel like making it nicer.

Some ideas floating around in my head:

- I could get some [prints from Ze Burnay][] to decorate the hallways.
- I could get a nice coat rack, shoe locker, and little bench to put beside the
  front door.
- I could replace the small and not very nice looking clothes storage "unit" (I
  hesitate to call it a chest of drawers, or really any other recognisable piece
  of furniture) in my bedroom, and the bedside table, with a nice matching pair
  and put some [prints by Ulla Thynell][] on the walls.

I've put quite a lot of effort and money into making my living room look nice,
as that's where I and guests spend most of my time; whereas decorating other
rooms feels like a bit of a waste (I'm mostly in my bedroom to sleep, so does it
really matter what it looks like?) so it's always easy to prioritise other
things.  But I feel like changing that.

[prints from Ze Burnay]: https://zeburnay.bigcartel.com/category/prints
[prints by Ulla Thynell]: https://society6.com/ullathynell/prints


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [An app can be a home-cooked meal](https://www.robinsloan.com/notes/home-cooked-app/)
