---
date: 2024-09-08
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Ark Before Noah][] by Irving Finkel

  A fascinating account of a cuneiform tablet which gives *instructions* for how
  to build the ark, along with the dimensions and quantities of materials.  The
  author weaves together the other Babylonian flood tablets to come up with an
  overall story, also talking about how it changed over time (and the likely
  reasons for those changes).

  For instance, the original ark was round: Gilgamesh had it as a square, which
  can be explained by misreading a single damaged sign.  It turns out that the
  coracle (a round boat) has been being built in Mesopotamia / Iraq for the last
  4000 years using virtually the same method all this time, to the extent that
  the quantity of needed rope given in the tablet is within 1% of the true
  figure based on modern calculations.  Amazing!

  The tablet also says the animals entered "two by two", which we all know from
  the Bible version, but which was previously unknown in Babylonian accounts.
  And yet here it is, pre-Bible!  There's a good chapter on how the Judaeans
  could have learned the Babylonian flood story during their exile.

  I'm seriously considering learning cuneiform, all this Mesopotamian history is
  fascinating.  I visited the British Museum yesterday to look at the displays
  and pick up a few books.

  [There's also a good lecture on this topic, by the author, online.][abnyt]

[The Ark Before Noah]: https://www.theguardian.com/books/2014/feb/13/ark-before-noah-irving-finkel-review
[abnyt]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s_fkpZSnz2I


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

A great session this week.  The players got into some good old fashioned
exploration and combat, and then stumbled upon something really cool: two living
dolls, created by someone they only called "Father", but who seemed to be the
reclusive and strange wizard Kerbog Khan.

The dolls had fled "Father" because he saw them as just tools, "like the
others"---by which they meant the Khan's other, more primitive, automata.  One
of the dolls had, unfortunately, been smashed by a large cave lizard and the
other didn't want to leave its side.  So the players picked them up and took
them away from the Khan, to the safety of the nearby town.  There they
discovered that the smashed doll had *an actual brain* inside its wooden skull,
hooked up to magical circuitry, and *far* beyond anything the players or the
Arcane Practitioner's Club in town could understand or repair.

In fact, the Arcane Practitioner's Club were astounded by this.  *Nobody* makes
automata that have independent minds or can cast spells, so they'd just
dismissed a lot of the rumours coming out of Arden Vul about Kerbog Khan as
exaggerations.  Certainly anybody who could do this must be an archmage of the
highest order, someone who would normally be famous across the empire...

The Club concluded that "Kerbog Khan" must be an alias of Cerbactos Kalthetos.
Famed across the empire for his knowledge and power, his advice was sought even
by the Imperial Court.  But he disappeared around 60 years ago with several
incredibly valuable books, and all spies and assassins sent to recover them have
been unsuccessful.  The NPCs warned the players to be careful: if Kerbog Khan is
the renegade archmage, he *was* a vastly powerful magic-user some 50 years ago,
and he's evidently only got better as *now* he is performing unprecedented feats
of magical engineering.

Not someone you want to get on the wrong side of at all.

### The One Ring

This week we had the first of what is shaping up to be a two, maybe three, part
diversion into the local politics of Bree, with the players trying to convince a
majority of the town council to vote out the Reeve, who is in a kind of Theoden
/ Wormtongue situation with his southern advisor.

This was the first time we brought out the "council" rules, which is the third
major subsystem in The One Ring (the other two being "combat" and "journeys"),
and which is a kind of "social challenge on a time limit" mechanic.  The way it
works is the GM decides whether the player's request is "reasonable", "bold", or
"outrageous", which corresponds to a number of successes the players have to
reach across a combination of rolls; and then one of the players makes a single
skill check to open negotiations, which determines how many attempts the players
have to reach the required number of successes.

A single check can give multiple successes (meeting the target number is a
success, and each d6 that came up "6" is another success), so there's a bit of
strategy with which skills the players will want to bring to bear.  The rules
also say the GM should reward bonus or penalty dice depending on how amenable
the target is to the approach the players are taking.

This time the players approached three councillors:

- Oswald Breeker, a grumpy old loremaster who they have had some dealings with
  before.  The players smashed it, they got a great success on an insight roll
  to determine what he *really* cared about, and then made full use of that to
  bring him to their side.  My fallback was that he has a theory he wants
  investigating, and doing that would also win him over.  But they got the
  success without needing that, and they still have an interesting theory to
  follow up on later.

- Fitch Talltree, the leader of one of the outlying villages.  No council here,
  as there's only one thing that would win Fitch over to the cause of some
  outsiders: proving their worth, through the hunt!  He conscripted them to join
  him in a quest to slay the troll which killed his father 10 years previously.
  The players sure weren't expecting to fight a troll this week!

- Rollo Lightfoot, a hobbit who the players did *not* manage to win over.  They
  picked up that he was very stressed out over organising the upcoming
  smoke-ring competition, but rather than make use of that they just trotted out
  the same old spiel about keeping the road safe.  It didn't work well, and he
  ended up asking them to stop worrying him and to leave his house.

The players need two more votes, and have two more councillors to approach.
They could possibly win over Rollo Lightfoot, but it would be even harder this
time.

## Miscellaneous

This week a disaster struck: my TOTP authenticator application, which I've been
using for years, stopped working.  Not only that, it's apparently been
abandonware for so long that it's not even available any more, and *the
replacement to this app* is *also* abandonware long since made unavailable!

Things move fast in the mobile world.

So I found myself with no way to recover my TOTP secrets.  Resetting TOTP for
everything was a bit strange:

- Some services just let me do it if I had an active session (like GitHub).
  That felt a bit odd.
- Most services required me to enter a backup code, which I had saved.
- AWS needed me to open a support ticket, but then they resolved the issue
  really quickly using a combination of a phone call and an email to verify my
  identity.
- My main Google Account let me reset TOTP after entering a backup code, but my
  *backup* Google Account is not letting me proceed without entering an actual
  TOTP code---which, needless to say, I cannot do---even though I have backup
  codes.

Unfortunately, the Google support forum reads like an astrology convention.
There's hundreds of people trying to predict the behaviour of a vastly complex
entity based upon incredibly limited observations, with a large dose of faith
and hope sprinkled on top.  There's no way to actually contact a member of staff
for help.  All I've been able to learn is that since I logged in with a backup
code (as opposed to my main account, where I already had a valid session), my
backup account *may* have had a security flag applied which *may* be restricting
my ability to change credentials, and that flag *may* be cleared after a week,
which *may* allow me to proceed.  So I just have to wait until Friday next week
and try again.

Ah well, if I lose my backup Google Account it's not the end of the world.
Though I do question the point of backup codes to bypass MFA if they don't then
let you update your MFA...
