---
date: 2024-09-15
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [cuneiform][] by Irving Finkel and Jonathan Taylor

  It's an little interesting book *about* cuneiform and the cultural context,
  but not so much a book to *teach* cuneiform; though it does have a listing at
  the end of syllable-signs, which is enough to transliterate words that sound
  sufficiently Akkadian (like "ba-ru-ka-du" = "barruadu").  If you were to be in
  a beginner's cuneiform class, it's probably the sort of introductory material
  that would be covered in the first one or two sessions before you get into the
  *actual* material.

  I've ordered some of the books it lists for further reading, along with some
  other cuneiform, Sumerian, and Akkadian textbooks, to try to actually learn
  something.

- [Delta Green: A Night at the Opera][] from Arc Dream Publishing

  This is a collection of unrelated scenarios of very different styles, there's
  probably a scenario in here for any Delta Green campaign.  I particularly
  liked one about a haunted house, that I might use to start my next campaign.

  I want to begin with the player characters being Delta Green outsiders, who
  experience something weird and then get recruited.  *Music from a Darkened
  Room* would work great with the PCs being private investigators (or even
  federal agents), asked by a contact to investigate a recent unexplained
  "suicide" that the authorities have swept under the rug.  Along the way, they
  encounter some weird stuff (and possibly a Delta Green agent investigating the
  same matter), do well by surviving, and then get approached by some shadowy
  feds afterwards.  It's set in the 2010s, but looks pretty easy to transplant
  back to the early '90s, which is when my campaign would begin.

- [Occam's Razor][] from Stygian Fox

  A collection of modern-day Call of Cthulhu scenarios which don't involve any
  mythos at all, just weird mundane things.  I backed this on kickstarter over 5
  years ago, back when I was running a Call of Cthulhu campaign, and I did a
  poor job selling it to my players at the time: they thought it was a "gotcha",
  taking advantage of the players' genre-expectations to get one over on them.
  And yes, it is definitely playing with the genre-expectations, but the
  scenarios are still enjoyable mysteries.

  A few things really stood out to me in this collection which I'm not so much a
  fan of.

  Firstly, every (I think) scenario involves hacking into a computer, the book
  says the PCs can figure out the password becaue there's (say) a big poster on
  the wall and the password is the name of the artist, or there's a photo on the
  desk and the password is the location of the photo, and so on.  But that's
  kind of ignoring that there will, of course, be lots of *other things* in the
  room as well!  Unless you describe only the plot-relevant things in the room,
  the players would easily miss the clue; and if you only describe the
  plot-relevant things, that feels like a point-and-click adventure game rather
  than a mystery...

  Secondly, plots: the scenarios tend to assume certain things happen in certain
  orders, and that certain clues will be found.  To mitigate this, the scenarios
  recommend lots of Idea rolls to deal with the players missing things.  But
  Idea rolls are supposed to be rare, they're for if either the GM or the player
  fucked up and we need to metagame a little to get things back on track.  If
  your scenario relies on the player either passing a Spot Hidden roll (say) to
  find a clue, or passing an Idea roll to realise that they missed that clue, it
  feels kind of fragile.  Follow the three-clue rule!

  And thirdly, most scenarios have an NPC who becomes fixated on the most
  attractive PC and acts weirdly around them.  I can see that working well every
  once in a while, but if you were to link the scenarios in this collection
  together into a campaign, it would be too much.

  Despite all this criticism, I think there are some good ideas here, but it
  would just take a little work.

[cuneiform]: https://www.britishmuseumshoponline.org/cuneiform.html
[Delta Green: A Night at the Opera]: https://www.delta-green.com/2022/04/a-night-at-the-opera-back-in-stock/
[Occam's Razor]: https://www.drivethrurpg.com/en/product/362442/occam-s-razor-an-anthology-of-modern-day-call-of-cthulhu-scenarios


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

We're now 60 sessions into the campaign!

This was one of our more combat-heavy sessions, though the party crushed it as
they're pretty powerful now.  They wiped out a nest of undead on the surface (a
powerful spirit possessing the corpse of a long-dead adventurer plus his horde
of 18 ghouls), and then they dealt with a bunch of giant poisonous spiders
blocking a stairwell down to a deeper dungeon level.

I decided to retcon the abilities of a magic undead-detecting amulet they found
a couple of sessions ago.  The amulet glows if there's undead within 100ft, but
most parts of the upper and middle halls of Arden Vul have undead within
100ft---except when they don't.  It was kind of a pain to keep track of, the
player had to keep reminding me, so I decided to extend the range slightly
(120ft, to match spells like *Detect Evil*) but make it an at-will 3x-per-day
ability instead of always on.

The players *nearly* found a well-guarded tomb with a bunch of treasure: they
know roughly where it is, and this week they figured out two trick corridors
that appear like they'd take you to it but just take you to traps instead.  What
they've not spotted yet is the secret door concealing the *real* corridor...

### The One Ring

This week the players got the final two votes they needed to oust the corrupt
Reeve of Bree.

One councillor was very concerned with wealth and status---specifically, *his*
wealth and status---and intimated, without saying so directly, that a bribe
would go a long way to convincing him to help them out.  And it did.

The other councillor assumed they had come in response to the "help wanted"
posters that he had put up just that morning, and the party decided to play
along to get in his good graces.  This led into a modified version of the *To
Soothe a Savage Beast* scenario from the starter set, which took them into the
Shire and then to the Old Forest, meeting Farmer Maggot and Tom Bombadil, and
dealing with two ghost-dogs.

But the end of the campaign is in sight!

One player has been talking about running a Troika campaign for years now, and
is nearly ready.  Next week we're going to do a short session 0 for Troika
(before getting into The One Ring for the rest of the time), but they don't have
the free time to actually start running a campaign until late next month.

So there's maybe 6 or 7 sessions left in this game.

I think next week I'll inject some final drama into this local politics
diversion, we'll have the Summer Smoke Ring Festival to wrap up their time in
Bree, and we'll end with some new threat rearing its head, launching us into the
third and final arc of this little campaign.


## Link Roundup

### Miscellaneous

- Interviews with and talks by Irving Finkel:
  - [Irving Finkel: The Ark Before Noah](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s_fkpZSnz2I)
  - [Tom Scott vs Irving Finkel: The Royal Game of Ur](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WZskjLq040I)
  - [Matt and Tom: Irving Finkel Teaches Us Cuneiform](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zOwP0KUlnZg)
  - [MoAn Inc: A Conversation with IRVING FINKEL About Ancient Mesopotamian Ghosts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z9cLjQqVtGg)
- [Ancient Languages are Dead Useful](https://www.youtube.com/@ancientlanguagesaredeaduse2792/videos)
- [eHammurabi](https://ehammurabi.org/)
- [KUR.NU.GI4.A](https://kurnugia.web.app/)
