---
date: 2024-10-06
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 10 of [Frieren: Beyond Journey's End][] by Kanehito Yamada and Tsukasa Abe

  This continues the story of the previous volume, where a demon turned a city
  and all of its inhabitants into solid gold, as the culmination of a years-long
  endeavour to understand human emotions.  I feel that the sense of elapsed time
  has faded away a bit in this arc, perhaps because it's about things within the
  span of human memory.  That said, it's still a good story; I just preferred
  earlier arcs.

- All of [Girls' Last Tour][] by Tsukumizu

  There's not much to say about this, there isn't really a story.  It's just
  about the long journey of two girls through a post-apocalyptic wasteland,
  always striving to reach the top of the tiered mega-city / arcology that is
  their world.  Other than two people they briefly spend time with, they're the
  only living humans we see.  In their memories, we see them fleeing an attack
  on their town, but never learn if anyone else survived.  Eventually, they do
  reach the top, but it costs them their vehicle, their fuel, and their food.

  I guess they die shortly afterwards.  There are no happy endings after a
  global war that poisons the seas and destroys the foundations of
  industrialised civilisation.

[Frieren: Beyond Journey's End]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frieren
[Girls' Last Tour]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Girls%27_Last_Tour


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Big happenings this week, the players:

- Looted the tomb of Thoth's great prophet, Ptoh-Ristus, and the party's poor
  porter (who was carrying the loot) received a divine visitation that night as
  he slept.  Thoth cursed him with blindness, unless someone take up the mantle
  of Thoth's *new* prophet and work devoutly to glorify his name.

  The party cleric cured the blindness the following morning and they decided to
  return the stolen grave goods pronto (if they hadn't, the blindness would have
  returned the next day).  But one player has said their next character just
  might be a Paladin of Thoth...

- Found an incredibly useful magic item: a pair of linked rugs, which allow
  instantaneous teleportation from one to the other.  They left one in their
  house in Gosterwick, and one in their room in the Goblin Halls.  So now if
  they want to conduct some business in town (like getting some magical loot
  identified at the Arcane Practitioner's Club), it's no longer a 2-day thing.

- Agreed to take Triv-Lok, the ancient Rudishva who the party freed from
  cryogenic containment some weeks ago, and who has now recovered from her
  amnesia, to the Varumani.  Unbeknownst to the party, Triv-Lok intends to seize
  control of the Varumani (who are genetically susceptible to Rudishva
  authority) and use them to escape from this planet.

  There could be Varumani roaming the Halls actively hunting for the keys to the
  Obsidian Gates in a matter of weeks!

Any one of those could kick off a major shift in the campaign, so to have all
three come up at once... things are going to change a lot, and they're going to
change *quickly*.

### The One Ring

In retrospect, it was a very funny session this week.

I knew we had three sessions left (including this week's) and yet I had a few
disjoint story threads.  I decided a cool way to end the campaign would be to
have a three-session arc which brings together those disparate threads, and
reaches a climax which provides *some* resolution but clearly points to a
larger, unresolved, issue in the background.  I also wanted this arc to be very
dwarf-focussed as we've had Bree adventures and elf adventures but no dwarf
adventures.

I came up with this grand plan, a combination of pre-written adventure sites and
a fair bit of homebrew to weave it all into a seamless whole.

Then due to a botched combat encounter with some wraiths the whole party was
killed an hour into the session.

Ah well.

We took a short break, and then reconvened to make an all-dwarf party for the
final two-and-a-half sessions.  I gave them a bunch of bonus skill points and
was very transparent about what sort of skills and callings (backgrounds) would
be most relevant.  We're going to wrap up the campaign having a fun time
crushing orc skulls beneath our axes... but what the players *don't* know is
that I'm still going to tie the ending into what came before.  It's not quite
what I planned, but the campaign-spanning story arc is still there!


## Akkadian

Great progress this week, I finished part 2 of Worthington's *Complete
Babylonian*, which is more than I had hoped to get done.

Next week I'm going to switch to another highly recommended textbook I picked
up, Huehnergard's *A Grammar of Akkadian*.  I've heard that the two books are
complementary, they each have a different focus and style.  In particular, the
exercises in *Complete Babylonian* get you translating actual historical
sentences from the very beginning, with the author providing translations of
grammatical constructs the book hasn't covered yet; whereas *A Grammar of
Akkadian* uses synthetic exercises in the early chapters, which only need what
you've learned so far.  This then affects the order the books cover the
material, with *A Grammar of Akkadian* introducing the more common verb forms
very near the beginning.

I've also started on my own translations of Nanni's complaint letter to
Ea-Nasir, and the poem *The Descent of Ishtar into the Netherworld*.  It's slow
going, but very satisfying to see familiar lines (like Nanni's exasperated "what
/ who do you take me for?") emerge from the gibberish.

I'll publish them on my website when they're done.


## Miscellaneous

Speaking of [my website][], I've changed a lot of things around this week.

I had a kind of mental block in place where I felt that only good, finished,
professional stuff should go on there.  It's been a place to download my CV
from, and little else, for so long that I'd forgotten the true meaning of a
"personal website".  A website can be "personal" in that it's about the owner,
but it can *also* be "personal" in that it doesn't need to be "professional".

It still has my CV, now tucked away on a page entitled "[The Boring Stuff][]",
but I don't think I've ever actually been contacted via my website for a job.  I
added [a blogroll][].  I expanded the section of [things I do for fun][].  And
in a few weeks---I hope---it'll also have some crappy inaccurate Akkadian
translations too!

I'm considering going *really* old school with it and having different styling
on different pages.  I'm not a frontend developer, why should I pretend to be
one with this clean, uniform, website?  Maybe I'll have a big tiling cuneiform
background image on the Akkadian pages.

[my website]: https://www.barrucadu.co.uk/
[The Boring Stuff]: https://www.barrucadu.co.uk/boring.html
[a blogroll]: https://www.barrucadu.co.uk/blogroll.html
[things I do for fun]: https://www.barrucadu.co.uk/fun.html


## Link Roundup

### Miscellaneous

- [Leitner system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leitner_system)
