---
date: 2024-10-13
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volumes 13 and 14 of [Delicious in Dungeon][] by Ryoko Kui

  The end.  These two volumes wrapped up all the open story threads, neatly
  finishing everything off: the demon was defeated (and we learned some more
  about what it actually was and why it acted the way it did), and Falin's
  humanity was restored.  And they did it all by eating things.

  Dungeon meshi.  Ah, dungeon meshi!

- Volume 10 of [The Disappearance of Nagato Yuki-chan][] by Puyo

  I somehow missed this volume when I read the manga as it was coming out: I
  read volume 9 in 2016.  Though, this last volume focusses on Asakura, Nagato's
  friend, deciding what to do about her future.  It's almost a side-story, so it
  was easy to dive back in.  It was a nice conclusion to the series.

- Volume 18 of [That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime][] by Fuse

  It's getting a little tricky to keep up with all the characters, as the
  author's still introducing multiple new major characters in every volume.
  This is supposed to be the final arc, and it does feel like we're building up
  to a climax; but I wish new enemy lieutenants didn't keep popping up.

[Delicious in Dungeon]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delicious_in_Dungeon
[The Disappearance of Nagato Yuki-chan]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Disappearance_of_Nagato_Yuki-chan
[That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/That_Time_I_Got_Reincarnated_as_a_Slime


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

We were down a player this week, but it was still an eventful session.

But let's take a step back.  Last time, the players agreed to take Triv-Lok to
the Varumani.  I had already decided that the Varumani would be predisposed to
accept Rudishva rule, as they're a genetically engineered species who the
Rudishva turned into loyal troops and good workers: much of their behaviour
today can be (and is, in the module text) explained as the lingering effects of
this genetic engineering.

So why not control, too?

In that case, it's a given that Triv-Lok will ultimately take control of the
Varumani if she stays with them for long enough.  But what's *not* a given is
how they would react to first meeting Triv-Lok, before she'd taken over.  I had
previously portrayed the thegn as concerned, but would he maybe be so concerned
he would refuse to meet with her?  Would he send assassins, to stamp out a
problem before it develops?

I wracked my brain thinking of how he would handle this.  I'm not a 200-year-old
intelligent troll-king faced with the prospect of my old masters returning and
relegating me to a mere servant once more.

Then I remembered that the game already has a solution for this: reaction rolls.

So I gave Triv-Lok a bonus from the genetic predisposition, rolled a few dice,
and quickly determined that the Varumani's initial attitude would be cautiously
optimistic.  And so that's how I played it when the meeting happened.

Don't overthink things!

### The One Ring

We wrapped up the campaign this session, a week earlier than originally planned
due to one player being unavailable next week.

The players tracked the orc war-band back to their fortress, and then returned
home to raise an army of dwarves to slaughter them all and rescue their enslaved
kin!  It worked beautifully, I tied it into what came before with the main
party, and left some open threads in case we ever do return to this campaign.

It was only 11 sessions long, but all in all a very fun campaign, and I would
like to play The One Ring again some time.


## Akkadian

This week I've been studying Huehnergard's *A Grammar of Akkadian*.  It's much
more "classroom-style" than Worthington's *Complete Babylonian*:

*Complete Babylonian* exclusively has translation exercises, with real
historical sentences.  It introduces the material slowly, and explains all the
words and grammatical constructs it's not covered yet in the exercises, so you
can just translate the bits it has taught so far to get the overall answer.  It
also doesn't really teach vocabulary, though you do start to pick up the more
common words.

*A Grammar of Akkadian* has a mixture of pronunciation exercises (breaking a
word down into syllables and marking where the stress is), translation exercises
with synthetic sentences both from Akkadian to English and from English to
Akkadian, and grammatical exercises (conjugate this list of words in this way).
It also teaches vocabulary: each exercise section starts with a word list, and
the only words you need are the ones from that list or the ones from prior sets
of exercises.

To sum up the difference, I'd say *Complete Babylonian* is more fun, but *A
Grammar of Akkadian* is better for actually learning.  It's good to have both, I
think from now on I'll switch between them depending on my mood.

I've continued working on my translations this week, I got a few more lines of
*The Descent of Ishtar into the Netherworld* done, and I'm very nearly half-way
through Nanni's complaint letter to Ea-Nasir.  I have a week off work coming up
at the end of the month, so I hope to make some serious progress on both of them
then.


## Miscellaneous

It's the new anime season, though there's slim pickings this time.
[Dandadan][], [Uzumaki][], and [NegaPosi Angler][] seem the most promising.

Also, it's crazy that I've written over 300 of these posts now.  It all started
[back in 2018][] as an experiment, I wasn't sure how long I was going to keep it
up, and now here we are.

[Dandadan]: https://myanimelist.net/anime/57334/Dandadan
[Uzumaki]: https://myanimelist.net/anime/40333/Uzumaki
[NegaPosi Angler]: https://myanimelist.net/anime/59425/NegaPosi_Angler
[back in 2018]: notes/001.html


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [The Two-Tiered Reaction Roll](https://dicegoblin.blog/the-two-tiered-reaction-roll/)
