---
date: 2024-10-20
---

## Books

This week I read:

- All of [Death Note][] by Tsugumi Ohba and Takeshi Obata

  The anime adaptation, at least what I can remember of it from all those years
  ago[^keikaku], is really faithful to the manga.  There are a few minor
  discrepancies but nothing worth writing about.

  I was interested in how I'd perceive the second half of the manga, since the
  general opinion (which I share) is that the anime really goes downhill after
  Light kills L and Near and Mello take over.  While I do still think the story
  would have been better if it ended with the death of L, and that Mello could
  have been cut entirely, I actually didn't mind the second half so much in the
  manga.  Plot-wise, it's the same, but somehow it was more enjoyable in in
  manga form.

  I still think Light was an idiot who could have easily won---e.g. when he made
  contact with Takada and Mikami he should have just killed the members of the
  Japanese task force and used Takada's supporters to root out (or just protect
  him from) Near's team; he didn't actually need to try to outwit Near, he could
  have set himself up as an untouchable mob boss.  And then, despite all the
  scheming, Near only won by chance, which was a bit unsatisfying.

[^keikaku]: TL note: "keikaku" means "plan"

[Death Note]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_Note


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

A lot happened behind the scenes this week, but the players barely noticed any
of it.

The thegn sent two varumani hunters to capture some rare prey, to donate to the
arena in exchange for an audience with the Lord of the Arena to ask him about
Triv-Lok.  Crellik-Var, of course, didn't remember anything about her.  After a
few more days of consultation between the thegn and Ashoka, his court sorcerer,
he called a Moot---a meeting of all the varumani---to discuss what is to be
done.  Points discussed included:

- That the rumours circulating about a new, non-crazy, rudishva being seen are
  in fact true
- That the thegn has met with this rudishva, who is named Triv-Lok
- That Triv-Lok has been asleep since before the collapse, and was recently
  found and awoken by some adventurers (the PCs)
- That she has no desire to rule the varumani, but instead seeks their aid
- That in return for helping her to return home, she will help them regain
  access to their ancestral halls
- That the help she needs is in the form of searching the halls for certain
  rudishva relics

The varumani are pumped.  They are fully on board with this deal.  They want
Triv-Lok to come live with them (the PCs were out so they haven't seen the
messengers yet).  Triv-Lok *will* slowly take control of them, due to them being
genetically predisposed to rudishva influence, but she's unlikely to abuse that
position.

But what the thegn *didn't* discuss at the meeting was that Triv-Lok also said
she'd try her best to reverse the varumani's degeneration.  He wants to be sure
she can do that first, but if it all works out he will go down as one of the
greatest thegns: the one who found and negotiated with a rudishva to save the
varumani in their time of need.


## Akkadian

I think I'm coming around to preferring Huehnergard's *A Grammar of Akkadian*.
Worthington's *Complete Babylonian* does have more fun exercises, but
Huehnergard explains things better and in a more sensible order.

For instance, Akkadian has several different verb "systems" as well as multiple
tenses: *A Grammar of Akkadian* teaches covers each tense in the "G system"
first, as that's the simplest and most common, whereas *Complete Babylonian* has
a chapter on each tense which covers *all* the systems at once.  It's more to
take in at once, and the explanation of each individual thing is briefer.

All that aside, I am now actually learning verbs!  I've been able to translate
half of the complaint letter to Ea-Nasir now, and I hope to finish it and put it
on my website in the next couple of weeks.

I haven't started cuneiform yet, but hopefully this translation practice will
mean it's not too tricky, as I have been translating from transliterated
cuneiform, rather than normalised Akkadian.  So when I do get to cuneiform, the
new parts will be (1) how to work out which potential reading of a sign is the
correct one, and (2) how to work out where the word breaks are.  But the
translation process after that will be the same.


## Miscellaneous

This week I migrated from [Promscale][] to [VictoriaMetrics][] [for my personal
finance dashboard][], as Promscale was discontinued early last year and this
year had developed an annoying habit of losing data.

I'm pleased to say that VictoriaMetrics works well: it falls into the sweet spot
of having a Prometheus-compatible query language and API, and also making it
easy to import historic data.  The API is pretty similar to Promscale, too, so I
only needed minor changes to my data-loading script to switch over.

[Promscale]: https://github.com/timescale/promscale
[VictoriaMetrics]: https://victoriametrics.com/
[for my personal finance dashboard]: https://github.com/barrucadu/nixfiles/pull/305


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Describing and Modifing Zombies to Better Evoke Horror](https://elementalreductions.blogspot.com/2024/10/describing-and-modifing-zombies-to.html)

### Software engineering

- [How to Write a Blog Post About How to Monetize a Blog](https://modem.io/blog/blog-monetization-making-of/)
