---
date: 2024-10-27
---

## Work

I've taken next week off work---time to laze around / work on some projects.


## Books

No books this week!


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

When I write up my notes for each session[^ns] I like to give them a title
reflecting the events of the session, to help me find the appropriate file if I
need to look something up later.

[^ns]: My notes are mostly just bullet points of key details that might come in
  handy later.

Sometimes a session is really unfocussed and so get a title like "Exploring",
but this week's was "The Not-So-Great Cavern", as the players realised that some
caves they were exploring were not in fact the Great Cavern, and they were
looking in totally the wrong place.

Whoops.

Well, at least they rescued a colony of mushroom-people from a fearsome Black
Pudding, and gave them a bag of compost as an apology for cutting down a
mushroom last week.


## Akkadian

This week I've been working through various sound changes in Old Babylonian,
such as:

- **Vowel syncope:** where a sequence of two "light" syllables[^ls] elides the
  vowel of the second, hence singular "napištum" (na-piš-tum) turning into
  plural "napšātum" (nap-šā-tum) and not "napišātum" (na-pi-šā-tum).

- **Assimilation of "n":** where an "n" immediately before another consonant
  usually turns into that consonant instead, hence singular "šaknum" turning
  into plural "šakittum" and not "šakintum".

- **Consonant loss:** where several proto-Akkadian consonants were lost, which
  then altered the words which used to have them in a bunch of different ways.

[^ls]: That is, a syllable that ends in a short vowel sound.

These effects (and others) are tricky.  They stack (e.g. a word could undergo
vowel syncopation which then causes an assimilation of "n") and also give rise
to "weak verbs", where the root form of the verb changes in strange ways in
different conjugations.

...plus several other small grammatical points.  Huehnergard does a good job of
breaking things up and not spending too long on a bunch of similar topics
(letter changes, in this case) while still explaining everything in sufficient
detail.

I'm now fully sold on Huehnergard being a better resource than Worthington.

Next week I'm going to change things up a little and use my usual study sessions
to work through my translation of the complaint tablet to Ea-nasir.  I'm a
little over half done, and I'm aiming to get it finished and on my website by
the end of the week.  I'm also going to look into flashcard software (maybe
Anki?  is that what everyone still uses?) to help with vocab: a key thing is I
want to be able to sync cards between my phone and my desktop, because being
able to review cards while commuting would be great, but writing on a phone is
awful.


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [CSS Utility Classes and "Separation of Concerns"](https://adamwathan.me/css-utility-classes-and-separation-of-concerns/)
