---
date: 2024-11-03
---

## Work

I took this week off work, and mostly used the time to catch up on sleep,[^sl]
finish the Akkadian work, and really just laze around.  I booked a dentist
appointment (for the first time in several years).  I bought some new shirts, as
I almost never buy clothes and an old one was getting pretty worn-out.  I
emptied the dehumidifier.

A week of relaxation, catching up on chores, and personal stuff.

[^sl]: I don't work long hours, I just find it hard to get to sleep before
  midnight, but have to be up at 8 on work days.  During time off, I can follow
  my natural rhythm of falling asleep any time between midnight and 3, and
  waking up by noon.

Feeling very [Man Returns To Work After Vacation With Fresh, Reenergized Hatred
For Job][] right now.  I don't *hate* my job, I quite like it in fact and find
it very satisfying at times: but if I could have the same quality of life as I
do now while being unemployed, I definitely would.

FIRE can't come soon enough!

Some people say they would get bored in retirement.  I think they might secretly
be aliens (or managers).

[Man Returns To Work After Vacation With Fresh, Reenergized Hatred For Job]: https://theonion.com/man-returns-to-work-after-vacation-with-fresh-reenergi-1819574342/


## Books

No books this week, but I am working my way through a huge single-volume edition
of the [Lyonesse Trilogy][].

[Lyonesse Trilogy]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lyonesse_Trilogy

## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week the players had their first foray into the Great Cavern, a location
they've known about and had access to for some time.  Ultimately, not much
happened (my notes for this session are very brief), just some careful
exploration of the paths.

Looking back though my notes, the players first gained access to the Great
Cavern in session 44---5 months ago!---by arranging the secret Goblin / Beastman
peace treaty.  Nice to finally set foot into it.


## Akkadian

I finished my translation of Ea-Nasir, and put up [some Akkadian pages on my
website][]!

Going to return to study-mode for a while, and next I'll tackle *The Descent of
Ishtar*.

[some Akkadian pages on my website]: https://www.barrucadu.co.uk/akkadian/


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [Australia/Lord_Howe is the weirdest timezone](https://ssoready.com/blog/engineering/truths-programmers-timezones/)
