---
date: 2024-11-10
---

## Books

This week I read:

- The [Lyonesse Trilogy][] by Jack Vance

  What can I say other than "wow"?  It's incredible: very Arthurian, very
  fairytale, very Vancian.  Jack Vance is such an amazing author, everything he
  does is gold.  Lyonesse is listed as one of the "inspirational media" for
  Dolmenwood and I agree completely, it fits perfectly.

[Lyonesse Trilogy]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lyonesse_Trilogy


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

More exploration of the Great Cavern this week.  Not much to say really: places
looked upon, corpses looted, mushrooms unmenaced!

The party also took a detour down to the Arena to spend a lot of gems to buy the
mummified corpse of Rex, the First Canine, from Reith, the lift-overseer.  That
got them some major goodwill with the Beastfolk, and with Dog Company
especially.  Though, the players were surprised that Rex was an actual dog and
not a dog-headed man, perhaps this reveals something about the origins of the
Beastfolk..?

Describing natural caves is a huge pain though.  The map is significantly off.
I think before next time I'll copy over the actual map to Miro and trace out
what they've explored.


## Akkadian

This week I returned to working through Huehnergard and got one more chapter
done.

On Saturday I set up [Anki][] flashcards for all the vocabulary and I'm going to
work through a little every day.  Today was my first go, and with a bit of
thought I did manage all the words.  Though they were all nouns, and I expect to
do worse with the verbs.

[Anki]: https://apps.ankiweb.net/


## Miscellaneous

I've picked up a few new games to try out: [WEBFISHING][], [Path of Achra][],
and [Fields of Mistria][].  I've sunk a few hours into WEBFISHING so far, it's
pretty soothing, feels kind of like a chatroom from back in the day---just with
fish.

[WEBFISHING]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/3146520/WEBFISHING/
[Path of Achra]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/2128270/Path_of_Achra/
[Fields of Mistria]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/2142790/Fields_of_Mistria/
