---
date: 2024-11-24
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Delta Green: The Conspiracy][] from Arc Dream Publishing

  This is a sourcebook for running a campaign in the '90s, greatly expanding on
  the metaplot detailed in the Handler's Guide.  And it is *inspirational.* I
  now have a pretty good idea for a future Delta Green campaign: more on that
  below.

- [Delta Green: Iconoclasts][] from Arc Dream Publishing

  A campaign set in Mosul in 2016 where ISIL unwittingly released an ancient
  monster called Shagash, the Father of War.  I was pleased to see that the
  Akkadian in this book actually stands up pretty well, which is more than I
  really expected for a campaign set in such an unusual location: ancient Greece
  and Rome are the bread and butter of adventure, Mesopotamia not so much.

  This is an interesting campaign, it's fairly short and has two distinct
  phases.  Firstly a very sandboxy investigation section which might involve
  travelling around the Middle East and might involve brokering
  not-entirely-legal deals with foreign intelligence services, but it's entirely
  up to the players how much they want to investigate before they enter the
  second phrase, infiltrating Mosul and dealing with the incursion.  There's
  also a fun prequel scenario where the players take on the role of the ISIL
  goons who unleash the Father of War and get horribly killed on camers.

  I don't think it would work as a standalone campaign (it's too short) or work
  for players new to Delta Green (you need out-of-character exposure to spy
  stuff to even know how to approach the first phase), but it could fit into a
  larger campaign taking place in the Middle East.

[Delta Green: The Conspiracy]: https://www.delta-green.com/about/
[Delta Green: Iconoclasts]: https://www.delta-green.com/about/


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

A pretty action-packed session this week, the party took out a powerful undead
(definitely a boss monster) at relatively low cost: one retainer got
level-drained, which dropped their HP, saves, and to-hit modifier (and then the
following round they missed an attack which would have hit with the previous
modifier; that's the scary part of level drain), and the party's heavy-hitter
*nearly* died but scraped through.  If he'd gone down that would have been a
pretty major blow; but that player has said their next character will probably
be a Paladin of Thoth, which would be cool to see.

Amongst the loot they found a scroll of Stone To Flesh which they used to
un-petrify a thousand-year-old priest of Thoth and questioned him a bit about
the old days.  He was only a junior cleric, so he didn't really know any secrets
of the cult (and what secrets he does know he wouldn't share with laymen), but
he's potentially a valuable source of historical intel.  They palmed him off to
some NPC in town to teach him the modern language.  He'll probably become a sage
the players can draw upon.

It feels pretty crazy that we've just played session 70.  Nearly one session a
week of the same campaign for a year and a half, and still so much more to do!

### The next campaign?

When we eventually move on from Arden Vul (not that I'm in any hurry to) I'll
next run Delta Green.

I've wanted to do this for a long time---indeed, I was going to run Delta Green
(specifically *Impossible Landscapes*) *before* Arden Vul, but the group was
down to only 2 players at that point so we decided to do something more friendly
to new players dropping in and out---but I've been thinking about it more than
usual this week after reading *The Conspiracy* and *Iconoclasts* and finally
have a rough outline for a campaign.

The campaign will begin in the mid '90s and will focus on the Delta Green /
MAJESTIC struggle.  The characters will start as unaffiliated federal agents
with a strong interest in UFOs (perhaps even strong enough to try to access
restricted records) who figure out a pattern in some recent crop circles and, at
3am hiding in a bush next to an isolated corn field, see something they
shouldn't have.  They might get noticed by MAJESTIC during this initial
investigation, which could up the stakes very quickly.  A few weeks after the
inciting incident Delta Green will reach out.  After recruitment we'll have
several operations, each revealing a bit of the truth, and the climax will be
the agents stopping a world-ending threat (or perhaps dying in the attempt,
along with everyone and everything else).  Along the way we'll have plenty of
home scenes showing the agents' slow descent into isolation and madness.

In-game, maybe 5 or 6 years will pass.  I'm not sure if I'll incorporate the end
of MAJESTIC (which in-universe happens in 2001), it could be fun to have the
final operation being the MAJESTIC decapitation strike.

I'm very keen to play out the Delta Green recruitment process, which sounds
really fun.  There are 6 steps:

1. **The Incident.**  This will be the first half of my largely scripted first
   session, where the players see something they shouldn't have, and perhaps
   have to flee for their lives.  It's closely followed by...

2. **The Interview.**  Delta Green somehow learn that something happened and
   have looked into the prospective agents, and approach them to try to get at
   the real truth.  This will be the second half of the first session.

3. **Trial Run.**  The prospective agents are called up for a Delta Green
   operation with the same agents who interviewed them.  The interviewers want
   to see how they perform in the field.  This will be a short (1 or 2 session)
   self-contained scenario that might not have anything to do with MAJESTIC.

4. **Smoke Test.**  Several months later, the prospective agents are sent on an
   operation by themelves.  The twist is that there's nothing unnatural about
   this operation, and Delta Green know it.  They want to see if the recruits
   jump at shadows and attribute everything to supernatural causes.  This will
   be another short scenario, but I need it to be one that *with the benefit of
   hindsight* was of course mundane all along: I don't want it to feel like a
   gotcha, I want the discovery of the final clues to make everything fall into
   place and the players realise what's going on.  Whereas just about any Delta
   Green or Call of Cthulhu scenario would work for the trial run, the smoke
   test will take some thought.

5. **Introductions.**  The prospective agents are pulled into a meeting.  They
   see a lot of other high-ranking Delta Green agents there from all branches of
   the federal government, the intent being to dazzle the recruits.  They're
   given a highly-edited version of Delta Green's history and an explanation of
   the mission, and asked if they would like to join.  They are *not* told that
   Delta Green is an unsanctioned conspiracy at this point.

6. **In Too Deep.**  At some point, the agents realise that Delta Green has no
   official sanction.  But at this point they've committed federal crimes and
   are kind of stuck with the job.  Whoops!  I'll slip this revelation into
   either the second or third mission after they officially join Delta Green.

I don't need to plan out the entire campaign in advance of course, but I do have
a rough idea:

1. **Session 1.**  They predict a crop circle and witness a stand-off between a man
   in black and the Greys and hear mention of "the accord", they see the Grey
   effortlessly kill a soldier as a show of force.  So they learn very quickly
   that the Greys are the bad guys, and that there is a shadowy government
   organisation working with / for them.  Roleplay out home scenes (if they
   projected any sanity damage) and the interview.

2. **Sessions 2 & 3.** Some short unrelated scenario, perhaps *Music from a
   Darkened Room* (or maybe not, I'm tempted to save that for a future haunted
   house themed campaign).

3. **Sessions 4 & 5.** Another short unrelated (but mundane) scenario, not sure
   which yet.

4. **Session 6.** The agents have joined Delta Green!  *PX Poker Night*, with
   them using cover identities and instructions to get the hell out of there if
   anyone starts probing too deeply into their cover identities.  A second
   encounter with the Greys and MAJESTIC, and a first encounter with the Mi-Go.

5. **Sessions 7 to ??** A mixture of other scenarios and investigations, mostly
   related to MAJESTIC and gradually revealing more truth, some unrelated.  I
   want some sort of alien disease scenario (perhaps *Viscid* or
   *Extremophilia*), a Mi-Go scenario (perhaps *A Night on Owlshead Mountain*),
   and to interrupt another scenario with something totally weird (perhaps *The
   Child*) just to keep them on their toes.  This middle part of the campaign
   can really go on as long as we like.

6. **Wrap-up.** *Observer Effect*, reskinned to be in 1999 or 2001.  The agents
   save the world or everything ends.

7. **If we want to go out with a bang.** The agents play a pivotal role in the
   decapitation strike against MAJESTIC leadership and the overthrow of the
   Accord: ending Grey activity on Earth.

I only need to have one or two operations planned ahead of where the players
are, and to adjust things based on their goals and actions: e.g. if they get
caught by MAJESTIC in *PX Poker Night* the rest of the campaign will take on a
much more covert-action / spy thriller feel, as they have to cut all ties with
their previous lives and adopt cover identities to escape the MAJESTIC
assassins!

No idea when I'll get to run this, but it'll be awesome.


## Akkadian

I wasn't really feeling it this week, so I skipped studying (other than keeping
up with Anki: verbs are still hard).  Next week I'm going to switch back th
*Complete Babylonian* for a change of pace and maybe start looking at
translating the *Descent of Ishtar*.


## Miscellaneous

I got some new bedroom furniture this week: 5 years after moving in, I finally
have ample space for my meagre collection of clothes.  Meanwhile, in the living
room I have over 30m of bookshelves.  Priorities.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Interview with Richard Barton, Author of Arden Vul](https://kellri.blogspot.com/2019/02/interview-with-richard-barton-author-of.html)
