---
date: 2024-12-08
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Sword Worlds][] from Mongoose Publishing

  I seem to be working through all my unread RPG books at the moment.  The Sword
  Worlds Confederation is full of space vikings, or at least that's the
  stereotype.  It's an interesting region with a lot going on politically, and
  seems like it would be a good setting for an adventure.

[Sword Worlds]: https://www.mongoosepublishing.com/products/sword-worlds


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

After a disastrous near-party-wipe last week, we played it pretty safe this
session.  We spent most of the time politicking but did get some adventuring in
at the end.  The party are currently clearing an area full of magical ice and
snow, and have killed 6 ice-ghouls with ease.

We ended the session with them about to charge into battle with the ice
elemental trapped here: if they can destroy it, they'll end the magical freeze,
and more easily search and loot the place.


## Akkadian

I'm still working my way through my "Advent of Ištar": now over half done and
being shared [on the fediverse][].

Once I'm finished I'll put the whole thing up, along with commentary, [on my
website][].

[on the fediverse]: https://hacksrus.xyz/users/barrucadu
[on my website]: https://www.barrucadu.co.uk/akkadian/


## Miscellaneous

There's a lot of health things going on lately!

### Finger

The bandage for my finger ([which I cut last week][]) comes off tomorrow.  I
have surprisingly mixed feelings about it.

On the one hand I can tell it's healing well because I have almost full movement
back without pain (to be clear, there was no ligament or tendon damage, the pain
comes from putting stress on the cut, not from the "mechanics" of the finger
being off), but on the other there is still some pain... What if it's healed
less than expected and I just have to cover it up again (or worse, accidentally
re-open the cut)?  What if it's actually fully closed up and I just have this
sore spot?

I still feel pretty stupid about the whole thing.  Holding a potato as you're
cutting it is obviously a bad idea!  It's a bad idea I've got away with for many
years, but it only takes one mistake, one slip, one instance of using a little
too much force...

I'm sure it'll be fine, but there's just a little anxiety.  It also doesn't help
that I had an allergic reaction to the adhesive on the tape used to hold the
bandage onto my finger, so the base of my finger developed a gross rash which is
healing quite slowly.

[which I cut last week]: notes/322.html

### Teeth

A few weeks ago [I went to the dentist for the first time in several years][].
Since then I've had the staining on my teeth cleaned, learned that I have
gingivitis and need to floss to keep it at bay, had two fillings, and have had
appointments for more fillings and a wisdom tooth extraction scheduled for next
week.  I also have a chipped tooth that will need a root canal and a crown.

It's been a real pain (both physically and metaphorically), but the end is in
sight (I think).

I'm really not looking forward to the wisdom tooth extraction.

[I went to the dentist for the first time in several years]: notes/320.html
