---
date: 2024-12-15
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Stories of Mars][] by Edgar Rice Burroughs

  Which contains the first three Barsoom stories: *A Princess of Mars*, *The
  Gods of Mars*, and *The Warlord of Mars*.  It's incredible, this is pulp and
  planetary romance at its finest.  The main characters are hyper-competent,
  honourable, likeable, and constantly tricked by the villains, who are
  sinister, selfish, and evil.  A hero is more likely to be enslaved or
  imprisoned than killed, just so they get to dramatically escape in the nick of
  time.

  It's not concerned with questions like "*will* John Carter, Gentleman of
  Virginia, manage to rescue Dejah Thoris, Princess of Helium, from the camp of
  the Green Martian warband and make it to safety?", it's more *how* will he do
  it, *how badass will it be*, *will he steal a flying machine and have a cool
  sky-battle during the rescue*, and that sort of thing.

  I devoured the book in just a few days, and immediately bought [the
  roleplaying game][] which I hope to bring to the table for a one-shot some
  time soon.

[Stories of Mars]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barsoom
[the roleplaying game]: https://modiphius.net/collections/john-carter-of-mars


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

The party took out the ice elemental and its ghoul minions easily enough, and
then commenced to thoroughly loot the place.  Amongst all the treasure they
found a few notes providing clues to an old mystery they never fully
resolved... will they revisit it?

I hope so, but say one thing about Arden Vul: there's always something else to
do.

In my session prep, when I was reviewing all the varumani's data crystals, I
decided that the thegn would reward the players richly for what they've done.
They brought him a non-crazy rudishva who claims to be able to reverse the
varumani degeneration, they brought him a means of viewing their ancient
records, they brought him a tape of the legendary First Thegn, and furthermore
their now-viewable ancient records back up what this rudishva is saying.

So he called them into a private meeting and named them "Friends of the
Varumani".  No longer merely "Triv-Lok's retainers" they had earned his respect
all by themselves.  He asked them to name any reward that was in his power to
grant, and they asked for... free use of the lifts.  Which is something I
considered, and explicitly rejected, in my prep.  It's barely a pittance, it
saves several gold every few days and they're incredibly rich.

But I guess the players just don't want to have to carry loose change...


## Akkadian

I finished the translation part of my [Advent of Ištar][]!  I then took the rest
of the week off (other than keeping up with Anki).  On the whole I quite like
the poem.  The grammar and spelling was weird in parts, but my hypothesys of
line-breaks conveying useful information worked out and so I was able to get
through it all faster than expected.

Next week I'll compare my translation with existing ones and see where I went
wrong, as there are some bits I'm *definitely* not certain on.

After that I'll write a blog post about the project, and put together something
like the annotated line-by-line [Ea-Nāṣir translation][] to go [on my
website][].  Then back to studying, I guess.  I'll need to pick a new big
translation project, as I do much prefer actually translating things to just
studying grammar.

[Advent of Ištar]: https://hacksrus.xyz/users/barrucadu
[Ea-Nāṣir translation]: https://www.barrucadu.co.uk/akkadian/ea-nasir.html
[on my website]: https://www.barrucadu.co.uk/akkadian/


## Miscellaneous

### Geodistributing my website (+ website changes)

I did a cool little project this week: I set up a mirror of barrucadu.co.uk in
America, and configured GeoDNS to route American visitors to that instance (and
the rest of the world to the Europe server).

I wrote a blog post about it: [Geodistributing my Website (with GeoDNS and NixOS)][]

But wait, I don't have a blog!  As a secondary project I added blog posts, an
atom feed, and markdown support to my website, as well as a bunch of template
changes (mostly around making it a bit more colourful).  I'm planning to write a
post about the Advent of Ištar when that's done, but I probably won't write more
than one or two posts a year, based on past experience.

[Geodistributing my Website (with GeoDNS and NixOS)]: https://www.barrucadu.co.uk/posts/2024/12/geodistribution.html

### Finger

I was quite anxious [last week][] about the potential state of my finger, but
it's healing well.  When I took the bandage off it was covered in a huge scab,
but that's mostly flaked off over the week, with just a small bit left at one
end of the cut.  I realised, too, that the pain I felt from flexing the finger
was actually due to the scab digging into the flesh, and that's gone now.

So there's still a bit to heal before the cut is fully closed, but it's nearly
there now.

I've definitely lost some sensitivity on the side of the finger above the cut,
though that may be temporary: at the beginning of the week it was almost totally
numb, but now I feel a weird tingling when I touch it.  I guess time will tell
whether that's permanent.

[last week]: notes/323.html

### Teeth

This week I was due to have a root canal and a wisdom tooth extraction, both of
which went way better than expected.

The root canal got aborted, as when the dentist got in there he found the decay
was less severe than expected, so he just did a regular filling instead.

The wisdom tooth extraction was apparently a fairly complicated one, and the
dentist kept having to inject me with more anaesthetic as I kept feeling it, but
in the end I didn't feel a thing when the tooth came out and, while it was
fairly sore for the rest of the day and I'm still eating soft foods, there
hasn't been much in the way of after-effects.  No swelling, no pain, just a bit
of soreness.  The strangest part is that I can *feel* the gap.  You don't really
feel your teeth, but you can really feel when one is freshly gone.

Next week I have no dental work (to give the extraction site time to heal), then
I'm getting one final (I think) filling on the 23rd.

Look after your teeth!


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [Homelab: Setting up Caddy Reverse Proxy with SSL on NixOS](https://aottr.dev/posts/2024/08/homelab-setting-up-caddy-reverse-proxy-with-ssl-on-nixos)
- [Building a Tiny CDN With pyinfra and Chimera Linux](https://www.wezm.net/v2/posts/2024/tiny-cdn/)
