---
date: 2025-01-05
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Atomic Habits][] by James Clear

  I'm not a new years resolutions guy, but I can't deny that I probably felt
  like reading this book (which has sat on my shelf unread for years) this week
  of all weeks due to them.  Cultural conditioning is a powerful force.  And,
  funnily enough, one the book mentions.

  I'm a bit skeptical of the self-help genre as obviously these authors are in
  the business of convincing people that they have problems which can only be
  solved by buying more books, rather than being in the business of actually
  solving problems.  But I really enjoyed this book, it's clear the author does
  actually want to help you fix things, and provides good straightforward advice
  to help you stick with good habits and break bad habits.

  I've already put it into practice.  I am really bad at remembering to floss my
  teeth: it's unpleasant, so I don't like doing it.  Isn't just using more
  mouthwash enough? (no) Anyway, on the advice of this book, I made a small
  simple change to make flossing more attractive: I decided to floss my teeth
  *in the shower*.  I greatly enjoy my long, hot, morning shower.  It helps wake
  me up and relaxing beneath the water just feels nice.  I already shave in the
  shower, so I just added flossing in as well, and so far I've flossed three
  days in a row which might be a new record.

  Going back to new years resolutions, the reason I don't like them is because
  they encourage you to make a bunch of big changes at once, inevitably fail,
  and get frustrated.  I do have some more ideas for habit changes from the
  book, but I'm going to stagger them, rather than fall into the very same trap.

[Atomic Habits]: https://jamesclear.com/atomic-habits-summary


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Every week I ask the players what they plan to do next, and almost every week
something happens to derail that.  Ah well, it's why we play: it would be boring
if everything went as planned all the time.

This time the players found a secret door, a secret back entrance to a sublevel
they've previously only glimpsed the main entrance to.  There's some weird stuff
going on, they're not quite sure what happened here, but one thing's for sure:
they can make *a lot* of money if they're able to remove the loot without
angering the animated statues or powerful ghost!


## Akkadian

I took this week off as well (as it was still partly December) but now it's time
to hit the books again.  I think I'll stick with my previous schedule of
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Saturdays; but I need to make sure I'm balancing study
time with translation time, as translating real texts is much more fun than just
working through grammar exercises.


## Miscellaneous

I've been playing a *lot* of [Caves of Qud][] this week.  Definitely a new
favourite.  I'm slowly getting the hang of it, there have been many character
deaths (last one got dismembered by fish), but each time I learn from my
mistakes and die in a different way!

[Caves of Qud]: https://www.cavesofqud.com/


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [Things we learned about LLMs in 2024](https://simonwillison.net/2024/Dec/31/llms-in-2024/)
- [Sanding UI](https://blog.jim-nielsen.com/2024/sanding-ui/)
