---
date: 2025-01-12
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Moorcock's Multiverse][] by Michael Moorcock

  Which is a collection of three early stories that isn't at all the same thing
  as [Michael Moorcock's Multiverse][], confusingly enough.  While I liked the
  stories they're much more different to the Eternal Champion stuff than the
  blurb made me expect, so that was a bit of a failure on the publisher's part I
  feel.  They should have just marketed it as a collection of early stories.

  That aside, *The Sundered Worlds* was my favourite.

[Moorcock's Multiverse]: https://www.gollancz.co.uk/titles/michael-moorcock/moorcocks-multiverse/9780575092587/
[Michael Moorcock's Multiverse]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Moorcock%27s_Multiverse


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

I found [this classical Latin cover of "everybody wants to rule the
world"][oomr] and I can't stop listening to it, I'm sure this is the sort of
thing they enjoyed back in the Archontean Golden Age.

Anyway, back to the game... last week the players found the Lost Chambers of
Arden and their greed was piqued by seeing so many valuable statues.  Well, we
talked logistics between sessions (moving 500lb statues up 350ft of stairs and
then deadlifting them into a teleporter is *not easy*), and this week the
players spent 19 days carting out one statue a day.  They used the time to do
some spell research, too.

They made a fortune, but there will be consequences for dropping all their other
priorities for the best part of a month... The Priscians they rescued and raised
from the dead recovered from their fatigue and returned to Arden Vul without the
party's help, so that's a valuable opportunity to befriend a powerful faction
gone (at least for now).  I think, too, that the Varumani will be a bit cool to
the party as they've not been helping Triv-Lok with her goals in that time, and
Triv-Lok is the only one the Varumani know of who can halt their racial decline.
I had decided that the Set Cult were hiring assassins to go after the party:
those assassins are hired now, and I upgraded how tough they are.  I'm sure
there are more things that happened in that time, I'll think about it.

[oomr]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xtt78SW-mgg

### Delta Green

This week I broached the topic of when we were going to start the next campaign,
and we've decided to keep Arden Vul running for the foreseeable future, with the
occasional pause to run a Delta Green operation.  This works well because none
of us want to end Arden Vul before we're done with it (and gods know when that
will be) and the Delta Green campaign will be very episodic (though with an
overarching story).  Also two past players who have had to drop out of the
Sunday game because they can't commit to the schedule have said they might be
able to join something more sporadic.

I suppose I need to stop sitting around and finally iron out the details of that
first operation, then.


## Akkadian

Back into study this week.  I realised why I was putting it off: I find doing
the exercises really boring.  So I've decided to drop those for now (but still
read through the textbook) and just do more actual translations to get the
practice in.  I need to pick something to go for, but I'd like it to be a short
cuneiform text, maybe a royal inscription or something.  I'll seek one out.


## Miscellaneous

Attended the birthday party for my friend's toddler yesterday---there were
several 2-year-olds running around a soft-play area---and also got to see their
newborn who's just a few weeks old.  Also in attendance was another
schoolfriend, with her husband, her 2-year-old, and was pregnant again herself
with the baby due in a few months.

I'm happy for them all, they seem to derive a lot of meaning out of parenthood,
and obviously liked it enough to have a second one, but wow these past few years
have *really* reinforced how much I don't want children.  It instantly takes
over your whole life.  "How does the child fit into this?" becomes a
consideration in everything you do.  I value my freedom too much to want any
part of that.


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [A 2-ply minimax chess engine in 84,688 regular expressions](https://nicholas.carlini.com/writing/2025/regex-chess.html)
