---
date: 2025-01-19
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Nomad of Time][] by Michael Moorcock

  Now this is the sort of thing I'm looking for in a Michael Moorcock story:
  universe-hopping steampunk.  It's really impressive that he can write three
  very similar stories which are still fun to read back-to-back.  Also, "Una
  Persson" is a great name for a mysterious character.

[The Nomad of Time]: https://www.gollancz.co.uk/titles/michael-moorcock/the-nomad-of-time/9780575092693/


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Last week I said I would give the players some consequences for spending weeks
hauling statues out of the dungeon and neglecting their other projects, but I
decided not to do that.  The only consequence now is that the Set Cult, which
the party are enemies with, has hired assassins to hunt them down; all the
factions they're friendly with are just as friendly as they were *before* the
party ditched them for the best part of a month.

I have a bit of difficulty balancing faction stuff with dungeoneering stuff, but
try to skew towards whatever the players are more interested in at the
time---since that's why we're playing---so while the players are off
dungeoneering, factions can just fade into the background.  I don't want them to
feel like going to the effort to befriend a faction then forces them to spend
time appeasing the faction to keep their good will.

So, *this week*, the players did some exploring, found some loot, and were 1HP
off losing the party's strongest fighter with no way to recover the body.  But
they managed to flee.  I'll get them next time!

We did some downtime over Discord before the session, this is the second time
we've done it now and I like it.  It lets us get a lot of procedural stuff
(talking to NPCs, shopping, using divination spells to gather information, etc)
out of the way beforehand, so we can get straight to the action when the game
starts.  I'm going to suggest we keep doing it.


## Akkadian

This week I've been learning about business contracts (despite deciding last
week to stop doing the exercises, I did some this week as they were from actual
texts).  I've dialled my dedicated study time down to just Monday evenings,
since I can always do more if I feel like it: today I did some on Tuesday as
well.


## Miscellaneous

I've decided to upgrade azathoth.  I built it in 2020 using hardware that would
have been cutting edge a few years previously---the graphics card, specifically,
is of the 2016 generation---and I've recently hit a couple of issues due to its
age.  The motherboard is from just before TPMs became commonplace, and so I
can't upgrade to the latest version of Windows 11, and the graphics card
couldn't handle a blog post I tried to read about WebGL shaders.  I could
upgrade the motherboard (or get a separate TPM) and graphics card, but if I'm
doing that why not do the whole thing?

I'm going to order the new GeForce GTX 5090 when that releases at the end of the
month, but the rest of the hardware is all on the way.  I'll take a few days off
in February when everything's here to set it up and play around with having a
brand new cutting-edge machine for the first time ever.
