---
date: 2025-01-26
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Ur of the Chaldees][] by Sir Leonard Woolley

  An account of the excavations at Ur in the '20s; Ur being the city that
  Abraham---yes, *that* [Abraham][]---supposedly came from.  It's pretty dry
  reading if you're not into Mesopotamian history, but if you are this book is
  gold.  I knew how archaeology worked in the abstract, but reading about all
  the little details really made me appreciate how difficult it is.  Things like
  pouring molten wax over artefacts they've uncovered, so they can lift the
  whole thing out of the ground and then clean away the dirt (and wax) without
  disturbing the relative arrangement of all the components: much harder work
  (the author says) than just documenting what you see, taking all the pieces
  out, and putting them back together; but it gets you *the exact thing* and not
  merely a reconstruction.

  I also found it interesting how people back then just built on top of old
  buildings: filling the ground level up with dirt and using the old walls as
  new foundations.  It sounds like harder work to me than just flattening the
  building you want to replace, but maybe I'm just biassed by modern
  construction tools and techniques.

  They found evidence of the Flood, too.  Excellent.

- [Beyond the Pale][] by Yochai Gal

  A Jewish folklore-inspired old-school D&D adventure (written for [Cairn][] but
  these things are all pretty inter-convertable) in which a malevolent spirit
  gets summoned and weird stuff starts happening.  I'm not familiar at all with
  Jewish folklore so I really enjoyed this, but I think it'd be a pretty hard
  adventure to just drop into an existing campaign; unless you're playing with a
  bunch of Jews.

  There are a bunch of unfamiliar mythological creatures (including three
  totally different sorts of disembodied spirit), and the adventure is on a
  tight timeline: catastrophe looms in a few days, so if the players come into
  this not even knowing what a dybbuk is or what its tell-tale signs are, they'd
  probably spend so much time trying to figure out what's going on that they
  wouldn't be able to solve anything.

  I don't think this this adventure would work in your typical
  pseudo-Western-Europe-with-Christian-elements D&D campaign setting.  It would
  be jarring.  I really do think you'd need to run a much more Jewish campaign
  setting.

[Ur of the Chaldees]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20899849-ur-of-the-chaldees
[Abraham]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham
[Beyond the Pale]: https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/lost-pages/beyond-the-pale-a-folktale-adventure
[Cairn]: https://cairnrpg.com/


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

An incredibly impactful session this week, which is going to change the whole
campaign going forward.  This is truly one of the great turning points, like
allying with the goblins and handing them control over the main entrances into
Arden Vul was.

The players got over their teleporter-phobia and found the Cloister.  In the
Cloister they found the body of Captain Leil-Jor, and on her corpse a yellow
keycard.  The yellow keycard opens everything.  They then travelled down the
Transit Shaft to the officer's quarters, and looted the place: finding the Keys
to the Obsidian Gates in the process.

At a stroke, they've become the most valuable individuals in the dungeon.
*Everyone* wants what they have, and will kill for it if they find out.

Next week is going to be crazy.


## Akkadian

I've decided to drop the regular study time for now---I'm not really feeling
it---and just go back to having a casual interest in Mesopotamian history.  I'll
be back some time, I still want to translate a cuneiform text, after all.


## Miscellaneous

New-azathoth is nearly done, I just need to buy the new graphics card when it's
released next week (or so I hope, it occurred to me the other day that if the AI
scalpers are still going after graphics cards that might be tricky).  Using the
onboard graphics I was able to install Windows and configure everything, but I'm
too used to multiple monitors to start using it before I have a proper GPU.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Mode, Not Genre or Type](https://monstersandmanuals.blogspot.com/2025/01/mode-not-genre-or-type.html)
