---
date: 2025-02-02
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Kane of Old Mars][] by Michael Moorcock

  Which contains the stories *Warriors of Mars*, *Blades of Mars*, and
  *Barbarians of Mars*.  I was due to read this earlier, but decided to put it
  off for a bit after reading Edgar Rice Burrough's Barsoom stories rather than
  read *two* Martian trilogies back-to-back.  Well, these stories could almost
  be stories of Barsoom, if you just changed some names and details around:
  they're very much in the same sword-and-planet pulp style.  Even the framing
  device is the same: a man ends up on Mars through strange circumstances, has
  wild adventures, and comes back to tell his tale to a surprisingly credulous
  confidant.  The first story even significantly involves overcoming unfamiliar
  customs to win the heart of a princess.

  Michael Moorcock is very clear that these stories are a homage to
  Barsoom---his take on the same premise---and they're very fun.

[Kane of Old Mars]: https://www.gollancz.co.uk/titles/michael-moorcock/kane-of-old-mars/9780575092525/


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

A very exposition-heavy session this week, with the players learning the dark
secret of the varumani, opening the Obsidian Gates, and setting foot onto the
Midnight Road: where they found [the corpses of their companions from half a
campaign ago][n292]!

We ended with them hiding out in the Troll Pits from the kaliyani, who have
extended their control over a few more rooms since last we saw them.  They want
to escape to tell Triv-Lok and the thegn that the Troll Pits are intact, but
first they've promised to Ashoka, the court sorcerer, that they would seek out
and remove evidence of Rudiga's betrayal, to avoid collapsing the balance
between the four clans... Will they succeed before they're forced to retreat?
Find out next time, in the Halls of Arden Vul!

[n292]: notes/292.html#roleplaying-games


## Miscellaneous

Well, I failed to get an nvidia 5090 on release day for new-azathoth.  I was
ready at 2pm, but all the retailers I was checking immediately went down under
the load, and when things came back up several minutes later, everything was
sold out.

I really dislike this artificial limiting of stock to drive hype.  There's
nothing stopping them from just *making more cards*, but that doesn't instil the
same urgency to purchase in consumers, or lead to the same "sold out in 5
minutes!" news stories.

So now I'm on waitlists with a few stores.  I don't imagine I'll be able to get
the Founders Edition card, which is the one I really wanted as it's only a
2-slot design whereas all the third-party ones are 4-slot designs and (for some
reason) cost hundreds of pounds more, so I'm currently hoping to get the MSI
GeForce RTX 5090 Suprim 32GB.

In other news, I spent almost all of my free time this week playing Caves of
Qud.  I think I'm getting the hang of it!  But it may be becoming something of
an obsession...
