---
date: 2025-02-23
---

## Books

No books this week!


## Roleplaying Games

I've got some new acquisitions on the way: the new [Realms of the Three Rings][]
supplement for The One Ring; [Beyond Corny Gron][], a fantasy sandbox based on
Polish folklore; and I backed [the recent Kult kickstarter][].

I still plan to run Delta Green as the next campaign (which may start some time
this year in parallel with Arden Vul), and then maybe Ars Magica after that, but
I'm also increasingly coming around to the idea of a Jewish and Slavic inspired
fantasy setting for a future campaign.

[Realms of the Three Rings]: https://freeleaguepublishing.com/shop/the-one-ring/realms-of-the-three-rings/
[Beyond Corny Gron]: https://shop.lostpages.co.uk/products/beyond-korny-gron
[the recent Kult kickstarter]: https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/helmgast/kult-divinity-lost-dark-realms-and-other-horrors

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Another action-packed session this week, but the thing I'm most happy with is
something I'd planned working out *exactly* the way I wanted it to.

For some time now the players have been aware of an area of the dungeon which
venerates Arden, the legendary hero.  Arden isn't a god, but evidently she had
some sort of cult following back in the day.  The players have managed to piece
together that there was some sort of rebellion down here, with cultists turning
on each other as the city fell in the civil war.

There's also one undead hanging around---a corpse whispering about "duty", and
about the need to "protect the relics"---the players wanted rid of it, as it's a
liability.

They've discussed various plans over the weeks, but one in particular that
caught my eye is using illusion magic to conjure up an image of Arden, to tell
the ghost that he did well, that it's time for him to rest.  It's a brilliant
idea that I would normally have let work, except for one thing: Arden isn't a
god *as far as everyone knows*, but she has, in fact, ascended to demigodhood
due to the devotion given to her since her death, and so the players would be
conjuring the image of a demigod in her own temple in order to deceive her last
remaining loyal follower.

So when the player cast the spell I described how they felt a sense of intense
disapproval slam down upon them, as the illusion was instantly dispelled.

Cue "wait, Arden isn't a god, is she?"

Exactly what I wanted to happen.


## Miscellaneous

This week I played [Chants of Sennaar][], a short (took me 9 hours) Tower of
Babel-themed puzzle game.  Each floor of the tower has its own language you need
to figure out to solve the puzzles and make it to the next floor, with a larger
overarching story (mostly told through environmental storytelling) about how the
current situation came to be.  Along the way you can use your knowledge of
multiple languages to reunite the scattered peoples of the tower.  Each floor of
the tower has its own visual theme, and the soundtrack is really nice.

It's a very fun game, though one that has probably zero replayability value.

![A view from the outside of the tower.](notes/334/sennaar.jpg)

[Chants of Sennaar]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1931770/Chants_of_Sennaar/


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Add This To Your Hexcrawl Map: Natural Campsites](https://dicegoblin.blog/add-this-to-your-hexcrawl-map-natural-campsites/)

### Software engineering

- [OKLCH in CSS: why we moved from RGB and HSL](https://evilmartians.com/chronicles/oklch-in-css-why-quit-rgb-hsl)
