---
date: 2025-03-02
---

## Work

Long time since I've written anything about work.

We've had a month of, not exactly "downtime" since we launched the project I was
leading (I don't think there's any public documentation yet so I'll refrain from
going into details, but suffice to say we're selling it and the feedback so far
is great), but a period of assorted non-project work.

Amongst other things, I've been making some improvements to our dashboard
reporting feature: which is pretty basic right now, and the implementation makes
it hard to address the two major pain-points, which are that (1) the numbers
only update once a day, and (2) the way the timeseries data is stored makes it
inherently non-localisable to anything but UTC.  I've got an idea for how to
solve both those problems by switching to an event-driven implementation which
stores timeseries data at an hourly resolution, so it can be localised to
different timezones when we're aggregating things like daily or monthly totals.

Of course, the devil is in the details.


## Books

This week I read:

- [The Terror][] by Dan Simmons

  There's a very good [TV adaptation][] which I saw years ago, and which
  inspired me to pick up the book.  I've tried reading this before, but couldn't
  get into it; this time, however, I found it really gripping.  I particularly
  appreciated the long bibliography at the end---as the story is a fictionalised
  version of real events---so if I feel like reading more about Arctic
  exploration (which seems pretty interesting), I have a good starting point.

- Volume 11 of [Frieren: Beyond Journey's End][] by Kanehito Yamada and Tsukasa Abe

  Which finishes the Golden City arc that I enjoyed, but not as much as earlier
  parts of the story.  The volume ended on a time-travel cliffhanger, so I guess
  I'll see what happens when volume 12 is released later this month.

[The Terror]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Terror_(novel)
[TV adaptation]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Terror_(TV_series)
[Frieren: Beyond Journey's End]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frieren


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

A very quiet session, especially compared to prior weeks.  The players got up to
some exploration and found some neat areas but also retreated from a lot of
those areas due to monsters.  We ended the session with a bunch of zombies
animating in the room they just set foot into, but I expect they'll just close
the door and go somewhere else.

The players are fairly close to having a fortified base though, which means that
the cleric player's army of holy fanatics will start to arrive, and the players
can finally set their major objective in motion: wiping out the Cult of Set.
We'll have to crack out some mass combat rules for that!


## Miscellaneous

2025 is definitely the Year of Video Games, as this week I replayed [The Talos
Principle][] so that I had the story fresh in my mind to begin [The Talos
Principle 2][], which I'd had on my wishlist for some time but only picked up a
few days ago.

I was a little concerned playing a puzzle game and its sequel back-to-back might
not be fun, but the puzzles in 2 are interestingly different, and so is the
story.  I love these mythological stories that hint at a deeper meaning to
everything; sometimes I think I'd be happy as a forest-dwelling mystic.

[The Talos Principle]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/257510/The_Talos_Principle/
[The Talos Principle 2]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/835960/The_Talos_Principle_2/
