---
date: 2025-03-16
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [A Deepness in the Sky][] by Vernor Vinge

  This is kind of a prequel to [A Fire Upon the Deep][] (which [I read in
  2022][]) but can easily be read a standalone novel, there's no references to
  *Fire* in this book.  Stylistically it's pretty similar, with two parallel
  stories from the very beginning of the book that slowly converge towards the
  end: one story following the "spiders", intelligent inhabitants of a world
  orbiting a strange star that's dormant for roughly 200 out of every 250 years,
  and the other following the human groups who have come to trade with or
  dominate the spiders.

  One thing I really liked, which was also similar to *Fire* now that I think
  about it, is that the spider sections were narrated as if they were human.
  Expressions, language, aesthetics, were all "translated".  Just like the
  hive-mind dog-creatures in *Fire*.  But when the humans of the story finally
  meet the spiders the viewpoint shifts to a human one, and the spiders are
  horrifying!  Big ten-limbed creatures living in dark, low-ceilinged dwellings
  with uncomfortably hairy carpets, that speak by hissing and clicking, and
  emote with rapid, predatory gestures.

- Volumes 4 and 5 of the [Yokohama Kaidashi Kikou][] Deluxe Edition by Hitoshi Ashinano (chapters 83--140)

  There's not really much to say here, there isn't much of a story, each chapter
  is fairly self-contained: the only story really is that time passes and things
  change and come to an end, but also new things begin.  It's well worth a read.

[A Deepness in the Sky]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Deepness_in_the_Sky
[A Fire Upon the Deep]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Fire_Upon_the_Deep
[I read in 2022]: notes/194.html
[Yokohama Kaidashi Kikou]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yokohama_Kaidashi_Kikou


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week was one of those funny sessions where loads happened from the
perspective of the players, but actually very little happened that *I* need to
keep track of in my notes.

They did some exploration, killed a giant snapping turtle that had nearly eaten
the party's frontline fighter a few sessions back, found some treasure, and we
ended the session with them breaking into a tomb and awakening its guardian: the
greater mummy Neferet, Beloved of Thoth, wielder of the Iron Circlet of Ghanor
and one of the more powerful individual foes in the setting.

Next week will begin with a fight to remember.


## Miscellaneous

### House Buying

Things have progressed really well this week:

- **Monday:** I rang the estate agent to make an offer on the house, and they
  got back to me a couple of hours later with the news that the sellers
  accepted.  I then submitted the mortgage application and enlisted a
  conveyancer.
- **Tuesday:** I got a quote from a surveyor.
- **Wednesday:** I went into the bank to provide some ID, as the automated check
  had failed.  I also instructed the surveyor to go ahead with booking that in
  ASAP.
- **Thursday:** I received a mortgage offer from the bank, and printed, signed,
  and posted a statement about my [LISA][]: the last piece of documentation the
  conveyancer needed to get started.
- **Friday:** The survey happened.

Two and a half days from mortgage application to offer has to be some kind of
record.  I'm going to contact the surveyor tomorrow to confirm when I can expect
the report, but after that I've done my side of the process: I'm now entirely
reactive, just providing whatever information and signatures the other parties
ask for.

I've let the sellers know that ideally I'd like to complete and move in by the
29th of May, though unless they get a move on I doubt that's going to happen.
I'll have to put all my stuff into storage and spend a fortune on temporary
accommodation for a week or two... but it can't be helped.  If only my landlord
had told me sooner she intended to evict me and sell the flat...

I've been having fun for the last few evenings planning out how to furnish each
room.  It's just a rough draft until I get into the house and can measure
everything properly (I don't 100% trust estate agent floorplans)---noting down
where all the radiators, power sockets, and other obstructions are---but I'm
starting to get a good idea of some parts.  For instance, I'm going to get a new
bed.  My current bedframe doesn't really fit in with the other bedroom
furniture---it's metal whereas everything else is wood---so I'll get a new wood
one, and make it a bit larger and replace the cheap mattress and flat pillows
while I'm at it.  I've even been looking into the really mundane things like
bins and toilet brushes; I find often a space looks really nice except for these
little things that get overlooked as you just get something cheap and basic that
does the job.  But I want everything to look nice.

[LISA]: https://www.gov.uk/lifetime-isa


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [Writing My Own Dithering Algorithm in Racket](https://amanvir.com/blog/writing-my-own-dithering-algorithm-in-racket)
- [Ditherpunk — The article I wish I had about monochrome image dithering](https://surma.dev/things/ditherpunk/)
