---
date: 2025-03-23
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Behold the Man][] by Michael Moorcock

  Which I last read [in 2019][].  This edition has a different cover to match
  the rest of my Michael Moorcock collection.

[Behold the Man]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Behold_the_Man_(novel)
[in 2019]: notes/065.html


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Last week I said this session would begin with a fight to remember, and... not
so much, actually.  Neferet is one of the major individual foes in the halls,
and while the party did outnumber her and her (relatively weak) minions 2 to 1,
I thought she'd take down a couple of them and escape.  In actuality, the party
*killed it* on the initiative and combat rolls, with one character getting three
crits over two rounds (they were hasted), and Neferet didn't manage to cast a
single spell.

The party did have to use up the last charge of a Ring of Wishes to cure one
character from greater mummy rot, so this is normally where I'd say "well they
won easily but at least they expended a valuable resource so it's ok," but this
time I do feel I should have done better.  Neferet was guarding some pretty
amazing items, one wish is a small price to pay for an artefact as powerful as
the Iron Circlet of Ghanor!

The deciding factor in the fight was right at the beginning: the party won
initiative and managed to cast Dispel Evil, compelling Neferet to flee, before
she could prevent their spellcasting by casting Silence.  What I *should have
done* is have her immediately activate her magic invisibility item and flee the
room unseen, but I didn't, I had her flee visibly.  So the party were able to
chase her down and then, through a series of excellent rolls, crush her.

Ah well.


## Miscellaneous

### House Buying

After the rapid progress of last week, this week was very slow.  The sellers
didn't even appoint a conveyancer until Wednesday---a week and a half after
accepting my offer---which means I don't have the draft contract of sale yet and
no searches have been ordered.  I should receive the survey report tomorrow, and
I hope there's nothing major in there as it'll just slow the process even
further if there is.

I've now got a pretty good plan for how I want to furnish and decorate it.  An
unwelcome realisation was that I'll either need to repaint the living room and
maybe replace the fireplace mantel, or replace my black bookcases with white
ones, to avoid a major colour clash in the new living room.  In the living room
at my current place I have a white / black / wood theme going on which (I think)
works very well; but in the new place there's a cream carpet, light green walls,
and a bright white fireplace: black bookcases would just look really out of
place.  Also, I find carpet kind of hard to decorate with (a wood floor is much
more versatile, and you can always use rugs to add softness) but I don't really
want to move and remodel at the same time.  If I was sure I'd get the new place
with, say, a month before I needed to move sure; but as I don't I'll probably
just get some white bookcases.

Here's hoping next week is more productive.
