---
date: 2025-03-30
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Unfinished Tales][] by J. R. R. Tolkien

  I was looking for a new book to read earlier this week, and felt like picking
  up Lord of the Rings for a re-read --- but then I rememberd I had a few other
  Tolkien books I've not read yet.  So I went with this one.

  At times, it felt like reading bible commentary, with Christopher Tolkien
  comparing and contrasting different variants of the source texts.  That sounds
  like a negative, but if you're really into the lore of Middle Earth it's great
  to see how ideas changed.  Language is a big theme: it is in LotR and the
  Silmarillion too, but reading the Unfinished Tales I really appreciated the
  thought that went into the languages, brought into the tales as discussions of
  etymologies.

  I need to pick up *The History of Middle-earth* some time.

[Unfinished Tales]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unfinished_Tales


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week the players followed up on a rumour they heard 2 months (in game) ago,
that one of the Sun-Scarred Knights had gone missing in a hard-to-reach area
north of the Arena.  The players had reason to believe they could get by the
guardian and thought having the Knights owe them a debt would seriously help
when they finally approach the Knights to ask they not interfere with the party's
war against the Setites.

Since so much time had passed, I decided the situation had progressed a little:
the Knight, who had been affected by a mind-controlling slime and had killed his
companions, has now spent the last two months living off their raw flesh, and is
so maddened by hunger he would attack immediately.  Despite that, the players
managed to knock him out and restore his sanity, and while they haven't exactly
said "we're pretty sure you ate the bodies of your companions" he's starting to
put two and two together...

We're skipping next week because I'm unavailable, but the week after that the
Knight is going to return to try to complete his mission and recover the bodies
of his companions, with or without the aid of the party.


## Miscellaneous

### House Buying

It's been another week of little progress.  I got the survey report on Monday,
there's no major concerns but the surveyor did recommend also getting an
electrician and a gas engineer to check it out so I booked those in too and
should get reports on those next week.  With hindsight, I should have booked
those in when I arranged the building survey, as the building survey is only
structural.

But it doesn't really matter that I'll be waiting a few more days for all the
survey results, because the sellers' conveyancer *still* hasn't provided the
draft contract.  This is the very first thing they need to do!  Not only is it
almost three weeks since they accepted my offer on the house, but also it's been
on the market since January: why don't they have the paperwork ready to go?  If
it were me selling a house, I'd get my conveyancer to draft the contract as soon
as I listed it and viewings started to come in, so that when an offer did come
we could get through the sale---and I could receive my money---promptly.

Anyway, I've thought some more about the living room and have changed my mind
again and decided I *do* want to redecorate immediately after moving in.  I
don't particularly like the current brownish-cream carpet or the light green
walls, and besides years ago I vowed that when I finally have a place of my own
I wouldn't constrain myself to the boring and safe light-neutral walls.  I'm
going to paint the walls charcoal and get a pure white carpet (I've ordered some
carpet samples), and add a splash of colour with some art by [Goran Gligović][].

I'll hold off on recarpeting the upstairs, because I'll want to paint first and
I'm not sure what colours I want, but after I do I think I'll probably want the
same white carpet up there too, to act as a unifying touch.

[Goran Gligović]: https://www.inprnt.com/gallery/gorangligovic/


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Disposition and Reaction Rolls](https://goblinpunch.blogspot.com/2023/03/monsters-of-mythic-underworld-part-2.html)
