---
date: 2025-04-06
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Iliad][], translated by Emily Wilson

  The Iliad and the Odyssey have been on my radar for a while---how could they
  not?---but I never read them because I wasn't sure what translation to pick
  up.  Emily Wilson's is recent and generally considered quite good, so I picked
  it up, and indeed it is.  I was surprised by the scope of the Iliad: there's
  no Judgement of Paris, no Trojan Horse, no death of Achilles!  It seems what I
  thought of as the Iliad has more Aeneid to it, so I suppose that one will have
  to go on the list too.

  The translation is in unrhymed iambic pentameter, but I found it really hard
  to read in rhythm.  Generally I'm not a fan of poetry that doesn't rhyme, and
  I wonder if my total lack of a sense of rhythm (seriously, see me try but fail
  at rhythm games) is the problem.  I just get thrown if the words aren't all
  two syllables long, e.g.:

  > Beside the curving ships, the Greeks strapped on

  Which I think is to be read:

  > be SIDE the CUR ving SHIPS the GREEKS strapt ON

  But I have to really think about it, the "CUR ving" pair sounds awkward as I
  naturally want to read it "cur VING".

  So I just read it as if it were "prose with weird line breaks", which is how I
  feel about a lot of unrhymed poetry.

[The Iliad]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iliad


## Roleplaying Games

No game this week, unfortunately, I had a prior arrangement---but that's just
given the players more time to scheme, I'm sure.


## Miscellaneous

I took two days off this week and tried out a bunch of new Steam games.  Some
stuck, some didn't.

Games that I didn't get into, and refunded:

- [Kingdom Come: Deliverance II][]
- [Indiana Jones and the Great Circle][]
- [Two Point Museum][]

Games I'm greatly enjoying:

- [Nordhold][]
- [9 Kings (demo)][]

And games we'll see about:

- [Diplomacy is Not an Option][]
- [Roman Triumph: Survival City Builder][]
- [BLACKSHARD][]

[Kingdom Come: Deliverance II]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1771300/Kingdom_Come_Deliverance_II/
[Indiana Jones and the Great Circle]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/2677660/Indiana_Jones_and_the_Great_Circle/
[Two Point Museum]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/2185060/Two_Point_Museum/
[Nordhold]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/3028310/Nordhold/
[9 Kings (demo)]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/3122250/9_Kings_Demo/
[Diplomacy is Not an Option]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1272320/Diplomacy_is_Not_an_Option/
[Roman Triumph: Survival City Builder]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1864880/Roman_Triumph_Survival_City_Builder/
[BLACKSHARD]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/3223390/BLACKSHARD/

### House buying

After a few weeks of slowness, everything has happened at once: I got the
electric, gas, and plumbing survey reports in the first half of the week; I got
the title report and searches this weekend; and the conveyancer has posted the
mortgage deed for me to sign so I should get that early next week.

I have mixed feelings about receiving emails from my conveyancer over the
weekend... on the one hand, I don't like people feeling they have to work
overtime; but on the other hand, if he didn't the process would be even slower.
Ah well.

There was nothing especially interesting in the surveys.  Some minor
improvements recommended, but nothing major or urgent.  I have a couple of
questions about provisions in the title report that I've asked for clarification
on, but it seems unlikely that there will be a problem.  A minor boon is that
the sellers are willing to leave behind their fridge / freezer, dishwasher, and
washing machine, as their new house has built-in units, so that saves me having
to spend a few thousand pounds on new units immediately after moving in.  I will
want new things---at least a standalone, full-height, freezer unit, as I prepare
a lot of meals and a combination fridge / freezer can be a bit limiting---but
that can be put off for now.

I've started writing a blog post about the process, timeline, and costs of
buying and furnishing a house too.
