---
date: 2025-04-13
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 1 of the new [Rozen Maiden][] anniversary edition by Peach-Pit

  It's been a long time since I read, or last watched, Rozen Maiden.  I don't
  want to say it's just nostalgia that makes it enjoyable, I think it does have
  some inherent worth in it, but if it came out for the first time today I don't
  think I'd pick it up.  I wonder how many things I would enjoy that I overlook
  these days because the premise doesn't immediately grab my attention.

- Volume 19 of [That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime][] by Fuse

  I think this series is definitely suffering the Dragonball Z problem now, as
  the defeated enemies get replaced with new ones a tier higher, and the good
  guys power up to overcome this new threat, which awakens the next tier of
  ancient evils, and so on.  This volume we saw the pretty rapid defeat of the
  most powerful angel in all of creation, the one multiple books had built up to
  the the big bad of the series, and oh wait: another evil sensed this
  disturbance in the Force and has started to stir!

  At this rate the final enemy will be god himself (or the main character will
  become god, something that has been hinted at).

  I think it doesn't help that the author admitted in the postscript that he
  doesn't really know where the story is going.  He knows how many volumes there
  will be, but has now got so far ahead of what he planned that he's making it
  up at he goes along.  It's still fun, but it's definitely not as good as the
  earlier volumes.

- Volume 12 of [Frieren: Beyond Journey's End][] by Kanehito Yamada and Tsukasa Abe

  I was a bit negative on the last few volumes of Frieren, but this one returned
  to what the series is best at: the passage of time, and what that means for
  people.  Volume 11 ended with a cliffhanger: Frieren somehow got sent back in
  time, swapping places with the Frieren of 80 years previously in the party of
  the Hero.  This volume is about trying (and failing) to get back home, but
  it's also about how Frieren, changed with experience, suddenly reunited with
  the friends she has missed so much but knowing she has to be careful to avoid
  changing the future, adjusts to this unexpected situation.

- [Cities that Shaped the Ancient World][] by John Julius Norwich

  I wouldn't recommend this book.  I picked it up because I like ancient history
  and I enjoyed John Julius Norwich's history of Byzantium, but this book was a
  bit of a disappointment.  Each city gets only a few pages, most being 2 or 3
  pages, and it's just not enough.  Reading a series of brief introductions just
  isn't very interesting.

- [Let Us Build a Tower][] by Caleb Wimble

  This is a "depthcrawl", like the *Gardens of Ynn* or *Stygian Library* by Emmy
  Allen, where locations are randomly generated based on how far you are into
  the dungeon.  In this case, the setting is a mythic Shinar, incorporating a
  mixture of Biblical, Akkadian, and Sumerian mythology, to present a Tower of
  Babel after the gods afflicted man with the curse of languages for their
  hubris.

  A cool twist is that there was war in Heaven between Enlil, king of the gods
  and the one who opposed the Tower, and the others: so the other gods are now
  wandering the Earth (and the Tower) as greatly diminshed, but still incredibly
  powerful, spirits.  There's a lot of thematic overlap with *Godbound*, and I
  don't think it would be too hard to combine the two.

  Mythic Babylon is definitely up there in terms of future campaign settings I'd
  like to run, but there are *so many* potential games!

[Rozen Maiden]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rozen_Maiden
[That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/That_Time_I_Got_Reincarnated_as_a_Slime
[Frieren: Beyond Journey's End]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frieren
[Cities that Shaped the Ancient World]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20784166-cities-that-shaped-the-ancient-world
[Let Us Build a Tower]: https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/calebwimble/let-us-build-a-tower


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

It was a pretty eventful session this week.  The party completed the First
Labour of Arden (nearly dying in the attempt), which has got them one step
closer to meeting the deified Arden herself, whose cult chambers they're in the
process of looting.  That'll be an interesting meeting for sure.

After that, following up on intel they'd gained about the location of the
remains of Gennadius, fabled first leader of the Beastmen, they went to
negotiate with the Cult of Bastet.  They played it smart and brought a lot of
food for the cats, to get in the priestess's good books, but were tasked with
finding a stolen relic first.  This is all in pursuit of their goal to eliminate
the Cult of Set, so if you're keeping track here's the quest tree:

- Eliminate the Cult of Set
  - Summon a holy army
    - DONE: Get Ethelflad to level 9
    - DONE: Clear out a stronghold
  - Ensure the Sun-Scarred Knights don't interfere
    - Get other factions to put pressure on the Knights
      - DONE: Befriend the Varumani
        - DONE: Find a cure for the racial degradation of the Varumani
        - DONE: Return the Varumani to their ancestral halls
      - Befriend the Beastmen:
        - DONE: Find the relics of Rex
        - **Find the relics of Gennadius**
          - Find a stolen relic of Bastet
      - DONE: Befriend the Goblins
        - DONE: Eliminate the Halflings
        - DONE: Find the Goblin Sceptre

One of the players realised they'd seen this relic before so they were able to
fetch it pretty quickly.  Unfortunately for them, Gennadius's restless spirit
materialised and said he would not permit his remains to be taken to the witch
who enslaved his men: he wants Deino dead.  The beastmen, however, love and
revere Deino as their "mother".  We have a bit of an impasse.

The players are now thinking about bringing Count Skleros, the head of the
beastmen after Deino, to meet the spirit of Gennadius and foment a rebellion
against Deino.  They're also considering just assassinating Deino, so that Count
Skleros takes over, and then presenting him with the remains of Gennadius.
Interesting times ahead!

Finally, they accompanied Sir Sixth back to the cave where he wandered in his
madness, to complete his quest to check up on the weapons pod of the Beacon.
There, they saw the partially eaten bodies of Sir Sixth's varlets, and he
realised pretty quickly what had happened.  They didn't bring anywhere near
enough supplies to keep him alive all the time he was crazed...


## Miscellaneous

### House Buying

This week I received the mortgage deed and other paperwork to sign, and have
sent that back to the conveyancer.  I've also arranged building insurance.

Other than agreeing on the date (when the seller and both sets of conveyancers
are ready), that's my entire side of the legal process done!  And once the date
is agreed, I can arrange the move itself.


## Link Roundup

### Miscellaneous

- [Modern Babylon: Ziggurat Skyscrapers and Hugh Ferriss' Retrofuturism](https://publicdomainreview.org/essay/modern-babylon-ziggurat-skyscrapers-and-hugh-ferriss-retrofuturism/)
- [Photo sensor from smartphones helps with antimatter research at CERN](https://www.tum.de/en/news-and-events/all-news/press-releases/details/photo-sensor-from-smartphones-helps-with-antimatter-research-at-cern)
