---
date: 2025-04-27
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Why We Sleep][] by Matthew Walker

  It's probably too early to say this book has changed my life, but it's
  certainly had an immediate impact: I set my pre-bed alarm to be 2h before
  sleep should start, rather than 30m, so this week I've been reading in bed
  more consistently and also falling asleep much earlier.

  Humans have both REM (dreaming) sleep and NREM ("not REM") sleep and both are
  important, I knew this.  The brain cycles between REM and NREM sleep around
  every 90m, I knew this too.  What I didn't know is that the content of each
  cycle shifts significantly from mostly-NREM to mostly-REM overnight.  Waking
  up early isn't just missing out on a bit of sleep, it's missing out on a
  disproportionately large amount of your total REM sleep!  Go to bed!

[Why We Sleep]: https://www.penguin.co.uk/books/295665/why-we-sleep-by-walker-matthew/9780141983769


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

A pretty good session this week, the players defeated an ancient alien robot to
secure access to the shuttle bay which means their alien friend has all she
needs to leave this rock behind and head home.  Naturally, she tasked them with
another side-quest first: get the message to all the other rudishva survivors
that they now have a way out.  Drawing upon some hunches, they left the message
with one of the Sun-Scarred Knights and with Thegan Whitemane, proprietor of the
Inn of the Lost.  They also asked Thegan if he was Maurikios, a name they heard
from a ghost just recently, the name of a traitor...

The Master of the Sun-Scarred Knights is one of the rudishva they're looking
for---Melok-Ri---but I think he'll ignore the message.  He's too caught up in
his weird philosophy of preserving the eternal now.  Thegan was pretty clear he
wouldn't be passing any message along, so it'll be up to the players to track
down Isok-Crix, but I don't think he'll be willing to go either: his vampirism
disgusts him.  That just leaves Reiv-Tor, who is utterly insane and not open to
discussion.  Triv-Lok has already been able to speak to Crellik-Var (who has
chosen to stay), and Psalor-Ki (who is undecided).

In the end I think only Triv-Lok will go.


## Miscellaneous

### House Buying

No news this week.  I've emailed the conveyancer to ask what we're waiting for.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [MEANWHILE, ON THE WAR-TORN ICE MOON EUROPA...](https://tablescrapsrpg.blogspot.com/2025/04/meanwhile-on-war-torn-ice-moon-europa.html)

### Miscellaneous

- [Why Celebrimbor Fell but Boromir Conquered: the Moral Universe of Tolkien](https://acoup.blog/2025/04/18/collections-why-celebrimbor-fell-and-boromir-conquered-the-moral-universe-of-tolkien/)
- [How Gandalf Proved Mightiest: Spiritual Power in Tolkien](https://acoup.blog/2025/04/25/collections-how-gandalf-proved-mightiest-spiritual-power-in-tolkien/)
