---
date: 2025-05-04
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Great Indoors][] by Emily Anthes

  Which I last read [in 2021][127].  I picked this up in case there was anything
  I could use when it comes to furnishing the new house, but not really, it's
  more about architecture than just decoration.

[The Great Indoors]: http://emilyanthes.com/thegreatindoors/
[127]: notes/127.html


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week the players finally got to lootimg a tomb they've been trying to track
down for around a year (real-time), which is a great success.  The only entrance
is hidden behind an illusory cave wall in the side of a vast underground chasm,
so it's pretty hard to get to, but they managed it.  They even found the *true*
tomb, concealed behind two false walls, a secret door, and two false tombs!
This was pretty hidden.

Good job, team!


## Miscellaneous

### House Buying

We're now waiting on just two things: my LISA provider releasing funds to the
conveyancer, and the sellers being in a position to complete on their next
property.  They're in the enquiries stage, so even a most optimistic timeframe
would put completion around the 23rd, which is dangerously close to my move-out
date of the 29th.

So it's looking rather likely that I will be temporarily homeless.  I've emailed
my current letting agency asking if the landlord would be open to me renting the
place for an additional week or two, at a slightly increased rent, but I'm not
too hopeful since they've already served me with the formal eviction paperwork
specifying the date.

I'll probably have to put all my stuff in storage and live out of an Airbnb for
a week.


## Link Roundup

### Miscellaneous

- [How we solved the Royal Game of Ur](https://royalur.net/solved)
- [Why Archers Didn’t Volley Fire](https://acoup.blog/2025/05/02/collections-why-archers-didnt-volley-fire/)
