---
date: 2025-05-11
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Pavane][] by Keith Roberts

  Which is an alternate history novel set in a world where Queen Elizabeth I was
  assassinated, the Spanish occupied England, Anglicanism was crushed, and a
  powerful combined British / Spanish Catholic force suppresses Protestantism in
  the continent too: leading to Catholic supremacy, a second dark age, and a
  20th century in which England is still run by the nobility, the Pope has
  immense political power, and anything more technologically advanced than the
  train (though they do have "road trains") is heavily restricted.

  There isn't really a single narrative going through the entire book, as it's a
  collection of short stories.  If there's a unifying theme, it's the "Strange &
  Sons" train company of "Durnovaria" (Dorchester), which shows up in a few of
  the stories.

  Also, there's clacks (optical telegraph towers), which is such a cool means of
  long-distance communication.

- [Realms of the Three Rings][] for The One Ring RPG from Free League Publishing

  Covering Rivendell (to rather more detail than the pamphlet included in the
  Starter Set), Lindon, and Lothlorien; three different story arcs that could be
  a significant focus of a campaign; several adventure locales; and rules for
  staying in elven-realms, playing High Elves of Riven or Galadhrim of
  Lothlorien, and solo rules for being a solitary elf-lord fighting against the
  darkness.

  I really enjoyed this, it definitely got the imagination going, and I'm torn
  between whether to be an elf or a dwarf now if I ever manage to grok solo
  RPGs.

[Pavane]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pavane_(novel)
[Realms of the Three Rings]: https://freeleaguepublishing.com/shop/the-one-ring/realms-of-the-three-rings/


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

We don't often have big combats in this campaign, the players tend to be wary
enough that when they do fight they have overwhelming odds and crush the
opponent in a couple of rounds, but this week they were hunting a hag, who had
apparently been abducting and killing beastmen.

It was a challenging battle, especially as the players had blown a load of their
spells earlier in the session fighting some big lizards (which they didn't need
to do at all), but they made it through with no casualties.  I think this hag
encounter and her lair is actually intended to be the culmination of a quest arc
for characters a few levels lower: you enter the Halls of Thoth (the easiest
part of the dungeon to access), quickly encounter the beastmen, through roleplay
learn about their troubles including the hag, and then after advancing to level
4 or 5 (finding a few magic items along the way) have a really tough fight with
a few character deaths against the hag, cementing your friendship with the
beastmen in the process.

It's a bit less thrilling when half the party is the same level as the hag.

But *next time* we'll get our thrilling combat in!  Some months ago the players
heard a rumour that the Cult of Set had been seen meeting with a band of
notorious evil adventurers; a few weeks ago the players learned that the meeting
was about *the party*!  These evil adventurers had been hired to kill them, but
they were in no rush and were content to just keep taking the cult's money.
Last week, the party met up with their would-be killers in a neutral location
and tried to buy them off.  The price was high: 20,000 gold in gems.  The
exchange was set for 3 days time.  This week, the players made the exchange, and
then were followed and attacked on their way home.

They should have seen it coming.


## Miscellaneous

### House Buying

We've got a provisional completion date!  On Thursday the conveyancer got in touch
to say that the other side had proposed completing on the 29th or 30th, so I
immediately replied saying the 29th would be excellent; now I'm just waiting for
the exchange of contracts, as that's the point at which everything becomes
legally binding.

I've also extended my tenancy agreement here by 2 weeks, so I'll have a bit of
overlap to do the move.  In less convenient news, I'm actually on call the first
week of June, so I'll need to arrange something.  Ideally I'd swap out the whole
week, but I don't think anyone will be willing to take me up on that...
