---
date: 2025-05-18
---

## Books

No books this week!

## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week's session needed way more prep work than usual, as the players would
be dealing with an ambush by a similarly powerful NPC adventuring party, all
kitted out with magic gear and spells.  Additionally, the NPC statblocks are in
typical terse Arden Vul style, with only the information needed to know what to
look up elsewhere (e.g., why bother to include saves when you can just say
they're a level 11 cleric?).

Beforehand, I noted down all their attack bonuses, damage bonuses, ascending AC,
and how many uses of all consumables / charges of magic items they had.  I also
worked out what their tactics would be: an opening strategy for the first round
of combat, and then a standard procedure for each of them to follow.  I read so
many descriptions of spells and magic items.

And, ultimately, the NPCs were defeated thanks to the players coming up with an
incredible strategy.  We ended the session last week with them *hearing* the
ambush sneaking up on them, so the NPCs didn't have a surprise round.  Then the
PCs won the first round of initiative, and they did something absolutely
devastating to my tactics:

1. Cast *Sticks to Snakes*
2. Cast *Haste* on all the party and the snakes
3. Cast *Silence 15' Radius* on one of the snakes
4. Cast *Invisibility 10' Radius* on that snake

The *Invisibility* caught a bunch of the party members, too.  So at the end of
this first round we had 10 invisible snakes, one emitting a field of magical
silence, plus 5 invisible party members; also everyone can move twice as fast
and attack two times in a round.

In round 2 they set the snakes on the NPCs, with the silence-snake keeping to
the centre of the group, shutting down the NPC spellcasters.  This utterly
destroyed my plan, which relied a lot on spells and magic items with command
words.

The combat, and cleaning up the aftermath, was still difficult and took the
whole session, but it was a lot less close than I planned.  We ended with a week
of downtime to get all the loot identified and to resolve a few other things,
which brings us into the new year: the second in-game new year of the campaign!


## Miscellaneous

A thought for the week: what's the deal with the quality of supermarket potatoes
these days?  Used to be the case you'd buy a bag of potatoes and they'd all be
fine, and keep good for weeks; but for the past couple of years it's seemed that
they go bad much sooner and often have weird holes or other questionable bits.

They're potatoes, how hard could it be?

### House Buying

No progress this week, we're still waiting for the sellers to resolve a couple
of queries with their onward chain.  The conveyancer is still optimistic that
we'll complete on the 29th or 30th (as the sellers proposed), with exchange some
time next week.  I'm skeptical, and definitely glad I extended my tenancy.

On the other hand, I have made quite a bit of progress in preparing for the
move.  I've packed away all my books and CDs (in 37 boxes!), disassembled all
the bits of furniture and other things I'm not keeping, and arranged for a guy
to come collect and dispose of it on Wednesday.  Next week I'll pack away
everything I'm not going to need before the move and, after we exchange, book in
removals.  I also need to start ringing up utility suppliers and so forth to
arrange cancelling services at the flat on the tenancy end date.

I'm thinking of actually moving on Saturday the 7th (assuming we complete on
time), as that gives a week to set up utilities, get some new furniture
delivered, and, hopefully, get the rooms painted and carpets replaced (though
I'm not holding my breath on that).
