---
date: 2025-05-25
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Exhalation][] by Ted Chiang

  I said it [last time][] and I'll say it again: Ted Chiang is a master at
  taking a weird premise and running with it.  Every story is essentially "what
  would it be like to live in a world where this is true? how would it change
  how people think and act?"

  In this collection my favourite stories were: *Exhalation*, which is about
  entropy and the heat-death of the universe, but told through the medium of
  robots powered by air pressure (and the way he reveals they're robots by
  rapidly building up all the weird inhuman aspects of their bodies and lives,
  without ever speaking about them as if they're anything but living creatures,
  is brilliant); and *Omphalos*, which is about a world where young-earth
  creationism is literally true and has physical evidence (mummies with no
  navels, fossilised trees with no growth rings), but where it turns out that
  Earth is *not* the centre of the universe, that a newly discovered planet
  *is*, and so Earth is, what, a practice run? An accident?  What does that mean
  for a deeply religious world?

[Exhalation]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exhalation:_Stories
[last time]: notes/270.html


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

I thought this was going to be a diplomacy-heavy session, but the players
decided to put that off for a week until some drugs they've bought for the
beastmen arrive, to serve as a final negotiating chip.  Instead, this session
hit two of the pillars of dungeoncrawling: exploration *and* combat, both of
which went pretty well.

We started with some rumour-gathering, where the players learned that the story
of their fight with Jellik's Jarls had mutated somewhat: word in the hall is
that Jellik's Jarls offended the Goblin King, or perhaps one of his advisors,
and the party was sent to deal with the insult.  It's not entirely inaccurate,
and they decided to let it stand for now.  We also learned that the Sun-Scarred
Knight who had been stationed with the Cult of Set left some weeks ago, which
led to much pondering of the inscrutable motives of the Knights.  Is it a good
sign?  Bad?  Who knows.

After that they finished exploring the lair of a hag who they'd killed a few
weeks ago, and finished reassembling the dismantled statue of a Thothian
priestess: which turned out to the magic statue of a priestess who had
voluntarily been transformed into this form to serve as a permanent conduit
between Thoth and this world.  She thanked them for reassembling her, quizzed
them about recent developments in the Halls, and bid them good day.

Then we got onto the *real* dungeoncrawling.  The players knew that there was
some connection between the Halls of Thoth and the caves north of the Forum of
Set, but nothing on their map looked like it would link up.  They hypothesised
there must be a secret door *somewhere* and set out to find it.  They did, and
while they didn't find the link to the caves, they did wipe out a Setite guard
patrol and have a few new promising avenues of exploration open to them now.
That said, the battle was right next to the main temple of Set, so while
reinforcements didn't arrive in time for the poor guards, there definitely will
be a much increased presence there for a while at least.


## Miscellaneous

### House Buying

We have exchanged, with completion set for the 29th!

This weekend I've packed away all the nonessentials (i.e. everything I'm not
going to need in the next week and a half or so), and after the bank holiday on
Tuesday I'll ring a few removals companies to ask about moving some time late
the following week.  Unfortunately I'm on-call for work on the Friday (I was
able to swap the whole rest of the week), so that likely means moving on either
Thursday the 5th or Saturday the 7th.

I've also started sorting out utilities, council tax, preorders, and all the
other things on my long list that need updating with the change of address.
Unfortunately I won't have internet in the new place until the 11th, but at
least it'll be symmetric gigabit when I do have it, at under half the price of
my current (most definitely *not* symmetric gigabit) internet.

After the move I'll need to come back to the current flat to give it a really
thorough clean, take final gas & elextricity metre readings, and drop off the
keys.  I'll probably do that on the Saturday or Sunday.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Traveller Distinctives: Speculative Trade](https://grognardia.blogspot.com/2025/05/traveller-distinctives-speculative-trade.html)

### Miscellaneous

- [The Logistics of Road War in the Wasteland](https://acoup.blog/2025/05/23/collections-the-logistics-of-road-war-in-the-wasteland/)
