---
date: 2025-06-01
---

## Books

No books this week!


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week the players returned to the caves north-west of the Halls of Thoth,
and found the passage down to the caves north of the Forum of Set: score!  Most
of the session was spent in careful exploration, which culminated in finding the
large-ish group of escaped slaves they'd heard rumour of.  Fighting their way
through lizards of unusual size, owlbears, and a giant snake, they managed to
get all the slaves out: now all that stands in their way is the Setite guardpost
they smashed last time, now reinforced and ready for action.

No session next week unfortunately, as I'll have moved to the new house (woo)
but won't yet have internet (boo).


## Miscellaneous

### House Buying

We have completed!  I own a house!

I was over at the house on Thursday to pick up the keys, measure for furniture,
and do some shopping.  It's kind of amazing how much shopping there is to do
when you time everything to run out before the move: cleaning supplies,
toiletries, cooking oils, ingredients, (etc), adds up to a lot!

I'll be back on Monday to show a painter the house and get a quote for re-doing
a few rooms, and also to measure for curtains (which I forgot to do on the
Thursday); on Tuesday I'll finish the packing (I need to disassemble a dining
table and box up my computers); on Wednesday I'm back at the house to visit a
carpet showroom and get a quote for that (due to a combination of work on-call
and attending a lecture at the British Museum, I don't have time to do that on
Monday); and then the move is on Thursday!  I'm going to take a couple of days
to settle in, unpack, and put together new furniture, then it's back to the flat
next Sunday to clean and to drop off the keys.

Hopefully everything will be done in another month or two, and I'll have a
colourful and comfy home.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [The High King of All the Isles](https://houselesshills.blogspot.com/2025/05/the-high-king-of-all-isles.html)
