---
date: 2025-06-15
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Last Days][] by Adam Nevill

    I felt like re-reading either this or *The Ritual*, and by great coincidence
    the very first box I opened (I've not unpacked my books after the move yet)
    had this in it, which I took as a sign.  I really need to pick up some more
    of Adam Nevill's books.

[Last Days]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Last_Days_(Nevill_novel)


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week we picked up from last time's cliffhanger: the players had found a
route into the caverns of the Cult of Set, found the escaped slaves, and brought
them back to the brink of safety; they just needed to get past one last
guardpost.

Which they did, easily, though at the cost of a powerful illusion scroll.

We then spent most of the rest of the session engaging in diplomacy with the
goblins and the varumani.  This is part of the grand plan to destroy the Cult of
Set: they need to ensure the Sun-Scarred Knights won't show up to kick their
asses for disturbing their precious status quo, so they're getting the goblins,
beastmen, and varumani to back them up when they go to negotiate with the
Knights right before the war kicks off.

Since this is a big thing, I asked for a plan from the players a while back, and
I spent some time thinking it through.  I'd decided that the three factions
would basically back them up (unless they asked for something ridiculous),
though they each have their reasons (they're cashing in some pretty big favours
with the goblins, whereas the beastmen and varumani have their own ulterior
motives to participate in this meeting), and the Knights would grill them pretty
harshly (I've prepared a list of questions intended to cast doubt on the moral
high ground they're justifying this all with) but ultimately accede after
demanding some heavy concessions from the party; and then we get to the actual
war itself!

For the war we're going to use the [By this Poleaxe][] mass combat rules, which
we're all really looking forward to as we've not done any mass combat in any
campaign so far!

[By this Poleaxe]: https://www.drivethrurpg.com/en/product/141199/by-this-poleaxe


## Miscellaneous

This week I baked my first loaf of bread after the move, and maybe it's just the
general sense of change in my life right now, but afterwards while munching on a
delicious sandwich (corned beef, onion chutney, and sundried tomato) I felt like
trying out different sorts of bread.  So I've ordered some spelt flour to try
out in my next loaf.  I think I'll also have another go at making a rye
bread---I use a rye starter, but typically with white bread flour---which I
previously dropped after a few disappointing loafs.

### House Buying

I think this will be the last "house buying" update, as the process is really
all done now.

This week I got my internet connection set up, though I seem to be having
problems with torrenting and with [yt-dlp][] which could be related to my ISP's
use of CGNAT.  I've got a support ticket open asking about static IP
addresses---so I bypass the CGNAT layer entirely---which they advertised on
their website when I first looked into them, but oddly enough there's no mention
now.

I also returned to work.  Unfortunately, the 4G signal here isn't great, so
tethering from my phone would have been difficult (coincidentally I've decided
to upgrade my phone, and have a Pixel 9, which has 5G support, on the way), and
the internet didn't get enabled until Saturday due to a need to send out an
engineer, so I ended up commuting to the office 4 out of 5 days this week.  The
journey is long, but not so bad as the bulk of it is a train journey, on which
you can just sit and read.  The cost was the worst part, as I'd budgeted assumed
buying 1 or 2 tickets a week, and those in advance to take advantage of the
lower prices; but this week I ended up buying 4 tickets all on the day.

I'm still largely living out of boxes, as I want to redecorate first.  I'm still
waiting for the paint samples to arrive (Dulux are so slow at sending them out I
wonder if they even want to sell paint), but when those finally get here and I
make up my mind, I'll book in the painting work.  The carpets are all ready to
go the week after next.  So hopefully I'll be fully unpacked and settled in by
the mid July.

[yt-dlp]: https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [A Social Truth about Fun](https://bankuei.wordpress.com/2014/05/18/a-social-truth-about-fun/)
