---
date: 2025-07-06
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 2 of the [Rozen Maiden][] anniversary edition by Peach-Pit

  I really like how well the translation portrays all the Rozen Maidens' vocal
  tics and speech patterns, e.g. Suiseiseki ends all her sentences with
  "desu"---which the fansubbed anime just left at that because that works with
  an audience composed entirely of weebs---translated here as ending all her
  sentences with "yes?" which is basically the same thing.

[Rozen Maiden]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rozen_Maiden


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

**One hundred sessions!**  We made it!

This week the war against the Cult of Set began in earnest.  We decided to get a
taste for the mass combat rules by the players going after a few outlying bases,
which they smashed with ease since they sent all their best troops and they were
facing one or two squads of regular guards at a time.  I think collectively the
Cult of Set's forces outclass the players', if you don't include the PCs
themselves which have a huge impact due to being so high level and well
equipped.

However, there aren't really any outlying bases left, and the players have
managed to shut off their access to the Temple of Set (they sealed one entrance
with an explosive, and the Cult of Set will collapse the other in response to a
strike by the players), which reduces their approaches into the Forum.

We left the session in the middle of a night-time raid to free the slaves in
advance of the main invasion tomorrow.  Due to an unfortunate random encounter
roll, they were spotted emptying out the third of four slave pens: or at least,
the slaves were spotted escaping via a magic teleporting rug, as the players
themselves are invisible.  I need to figure out how quickly the Guild rouses
itself in response to this breakout, but it's hard to see how the players could
get to the fourth slave pen without breaking cover.

In any case, due to their attacks on the Cult's teritory in the day, and the
escape of the slaves in the night, the Cult will be on high alert tomorrow with
all their troops ready to go.  The players have had a pretty successful time of
it so far, but will they continue their streak of zero casualties once several
powerful magic-users are blasting them with area-of-effect spells?


## Miscellaneous

This weekend I had the urge to play Guild Wars, so I picked up a few expansions
I was missing and logged in for the first time in three or four years.  I've
been working through the *End of Dragons* expansion, which is pretty fun as it
brings back Cantha, the fantasy-south-east-asia region which wasn't available at
release time due to it being 100+ years into "totally not Sakoku".  I didn't
actually complete the previous expansion, it didn't grip me for whatever reason,
so I've missed a chunk of the story, but not so much that I can't make sense of
things.  It's just cool having the region back.
