---
date: 2025-07-13
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Permutation City][] by Greg Egan

  This was definitely one of those books where I felt the author should have
  just stopped writing earlier, rather than keep going and reduce a great novel
  to being merely good.

  The first part of the book, which is really about 3/4ths of the page count,
  builds up two interesting questions---one philosophical ("what is reality?")
  and one much more practical ("is this character insane?")---and ends in a
  pretty dramatic way with said character killing himself for his beliefs.  You
  see, if we take the philosophical question as true then it wasn't really
  "death", another version of him would carry on; but if we don't subscribe to
  his philosophy, then he's just a madman who wasted all his money and then
  killed himself.

  It's the perfect uncertainty to end the story on.

  And then the second part comes along and *immediately* confirms that he was
  right all along and just resolves the philosophical question with little
  fanfare, but more importantly it focusses on a whole new conflict that wasn't
  foreshadowed at all, that just comes out of nowhere.  I think part 2 could
  have been great if it built this new conflict up more slowly, but as it is I
  feel I could have just torn those pages out of the book without reading them
  and the overall experience would have been better.

[Permutation City]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Permutation_City


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

The war against the Cult of Set is going very well: this week the party's
assassin, disguised as a Set Acolyte and armed with two potions of invisibility,
a potion of gaseous form, a +2 dagger coated in poison, and a few beads of
force, snuck into the Guild of Service and managed to assassinate two of the
guild leaders (popping into visibility in front of witnesses both times) and
executed a flawless getaway.

They also managed to free all the slaves the previous night and killed / charmed
all the witnesses, so just as the Guild was trying to work out how like 50
slaves escaped *with nobody noticing* they were apparently attacked by an
acolyte of the Cult, which I think has set some ideas going in the minds of the
remaining leaders.

It looks like next week will be the decisive battle, and with the Guild at odds
with the Cult, things could swing very heavily in the players' favour.


## Miscellaneous

### Guild Wars

I finished the *End of Dragons* expansion for Guild Wars 2 this week.  Overall,
it took me around 4 evenings of play, which isn't very long.  The pace of the
story felt a bit off too, e.g. there was a subplot introduced about these two
warring gangs which had to be won over, but they were introduced and the problem
resolved in a couple of short missions, I didn't feel I really knew these guys
at all (or why getting their support was important).  There was another part
where I had to wait for 10 sets of research notes, but there was no delay
between receiving them: I could just go through all 10 back to back.

Makes me wonder if, at the time it was released, the content was made available
only gradually.  Then you'd have had to actually wait for the research notes,
and the warring gangs would have been significant as you'd have spent time,
outside of the story missions, in the regions they fought over.

I then returned to *Path of Fire*, the previous expansion, which I never
finished.  So far I'm enjoying the story more than *End of Dragons*.

### Decorating

The office and living room have been painted!  The effect is just what I hoped
for, the almost-black of the walls fits in very nicely with the almost-white of
the carpet and the warmer tones of the wooden furniture.  But it's not done yet:
I still need to put things in order, unpack all the books, and figure out
exactly what art prints to put up.

The painter's coming back on Monday to start on the bedrooms, so those will
probably be done on Wednesday.  I'm looking forward to it!

### Anime

It's another new season, and I've picked up season 2 of *Call of the Night*,
season 2 of *Panty & Stocking with Garterbelt* (incredible that this got a
sequel), and *Silent Witch*.  All strong starts.
