---
date: 2025-07-20
---

## Books

No books this week!


## Roleplaying Games

### Delta Green

I visited some friends this week and ran *The Night Floors*, the first part of
*Impossible Landscapes*.  We had a lot of fun, and in the end the players took
the classic Call of Cthulhu strategy of setting the building on fire and hoping
for the best.  Unfortunately, they didn't start a very big fire, and the fire
brigade were able to put it out.  But they arranged through their handler for it
to be "dealt with", and a few nights later a much more effective arson took
place.

It took us around 9 hours, spread across two days, including some time for
character creation.

One really cool thing about Delta Green is the bond system, where you can
project sanity damage onto an important interpersonal relationship: reflecting
taking out stress on, and lying to, your loved ones to keep yourself sane.  You
don't really get to see the effects of that during a one-shot, so I made sure to
bring in bonds when I could.  One PC, a recovering alcoholic, lied to her
husband that she'd fallen off the wagon and started drinking again, to cover up
where she'd been all day.  The husband reacted by blaming himself for not
spending enough time with her, and immediately started doting on her: taking the
next day off work so they could spend it together (she managed to talk him down
from that), cooking her favourite meal even though their daughter hates it,
agreeing to back up her lie to her colleages that she'd been sick... there was
definitely some more strain in that relationship by the end.

We'll probably meet up again in a few months time and play the second scenario,
which takes place after a 20-year time skip.


### The Halls of Arden Vul

The big battle has begun!

The players gathered all their forces and marched on the domain of the Cult of
Set.  They began by sending a diversionary force to cause a distraction at the
Red Bridge, and divided the remainder of their forces into two groups to storm
the Guild of Service simultaneously via the north and south, and from there
press into the Forum of Set.  The timings didn't quite work out due to some
snags along the way (no plan survived contact with the enemy), and the north
group arrived a few turns before the south group.  But they were able to recover
and overall it went basically as planned.

Where the session ended, they've managed to take the Guild of Service entirely,
and have started to pour out into the Forum.  One squad is setting up a
point-defense array, being defended by the PC squad and their two other best
squads as that'll take a little while.  Marius Junienos, one of the High Priests
of the Cult of Set, has entered the fight and instantly killed 3 squads with a
well-placed fireball.  The players are greatly confused as to how a cleric has
arcane spells, but the simple truth is that he's just a magic-user who's also a
priest.  The other two High Priests are on their way.

The PCs pulled out all the stops: they've summoned a creature of Ardenia
Tessaeron (I gave them basically a Greater Guardian of Thoth, but owl-headed and
wielding a spear), a Water Elemental, *and* an Earth Elemental.  They're going
to group those up and send them to wreak havoc.

My overall plan is that the Cult will do the best they can to win, but if the
tide looks like it's decisively turned against them, High Priestess Stephania
will (try to) flee to her Kaliyani "allies" (she considers them allies, they
consider her and the whole Cult of Set as a potentially useful resource to
exploit) and then lead a guerilla movement against the PCs with what guardsmen
and acolytes she can scrounge from those who weren't on level 4 at the time.

Running the mass combat (we're using [By This Poleaxe][]) wasn't actually that
bad.  There was definitely a lot of prep (both for me and the
players)---grouping all the individual units into squads, deciding where those
squads start, and making rulings on all the spells and magic items---but for
actually running it, it was just a matter of noting on the map where each squad
was, and updating our spreadsheets to for hits and spell usage.

[By This Poleaxe]: https://www.drivethrurpg.com/en/product/141199/by-this-poleaxe


## Miscellaneous

### Decorating

The painting is done!  Irritatingly, I scuffed a bit of the living room while
setting up bookcases, so I need to fix that (or just hide it behind some art);
but at least I *can* set things up now.

The end is in sight: all that's left is to fully furnish the guest bedroom (it
needs some bedside tables, lamps, and a chest of drawers), and to choose all the
art.
