---
date: 2025-07-27
---

## Books

No books this week either!  I've been in a bit of a reading slump, need to fix
that next week.


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

They did it!  They defeated the Cult of Set!  I'm so proud.

High Priestess Stephania fled with several guards and a couple of acolytes, but
the players are hot on their trail.  Little do they know that Stephania has fled
to some powerful allies: the kaliyani.  Exciting times ahead!


## Miscellaneous

### Decorating

I've ordered the furnishings for the guest bedroom and most of the remaining art
([Ulla Thynell][] for my bedroom, [Pauhami][] for the guest bedroom, and a few
different artists for the living room).  All that's left is a chair and lamp for
the living room.

But I've exhausted my furnishing budget now, so those final pieces will have to
wait a little while.  There's also some things that would be nice to do but are
less important, like upgrading the blinds in all the bathrooms, but there's no
rush.

[Ulla Thynell]: https://ullathynell.com/
[Pauhami]: https://www.inprnt.com/gallery/pauhami/

### Gardening

Since I've run out of money, this weekend I turned to something I could DIY: the
garden.  At the moment there's a lawn (a little overgrown and weedy, since I've
left it for two months) and, at the back, a paved seating area with some
shrubbery.  The plants that are there are pretty nice, as they attract a lot of
butterflies and snails, but the lawn is dull.

I don't do anything that a lawn's good for.  It's just a waste of space, and
worse, one that's not even interesting to look at.

So this weekend I buried the lawn beneath packaging paper and woodchips,
smothering it so it'll die off in a month or two.  Then, I'll seed some [yellow
rattle][] which will help keep the grass from returning, and come spring I'll
sow clover and wildflowers.  I'll put up a bird feeder while I'm at it, and
maybe some other animal helpers too (like a hedgehog habitat).

In a couple of years I'll have a garden full of flowers, birds, bees, and
butterflies.  Much better than a lawn.

[yellow rattle]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhinanthus_minor


## Link Roundup

### Miscellaneous

- [Dissertation Typesetting Considerations](https://tony-zorman.com/posts/phd-typesetting.html)
- [Using fortune to reinforce habits](https://www.judy.co.uk/blog/using-fortune-to-reinforce-habits/)
