---
date: 2025-08-10
---

## Books

No books this week, but I've got a couple on the go that I expect to finish next.


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

We spent this session fully exploring the Set domain and taking note of
interesting loot.  I ruled that since the players had checked everything, it was
now a safe haven, which gave them a huge amount of bonus XP (a house rule: each
character received 10% of the XP needed to advance from the start of their
current level to the next) and allowed them to cash in the XP for treasure
they'd already collected.  A few characters levelled up, and the now level 10
cleric of Ardenia Tessaeron formally retired from the party to serve as faction
leader: he'll be spending his next few months redecorating and reconsecrating
everything, questing the Setite captives to make amends for their misdeeds,
constructing a memorial to dead slaves, and so on.

It's a really nice milestone to hit, and also marks the departure of the last
original PC.

### Traveller

I've been reading [Clans of the Aslan][] this week, because I think the Aslan
are great, and next week a couple of us are going to get together and roll up
some Aslan.  Anyway, I noticed a mistake in the character creation section and
wrote up [my own rules for Aslan military academies][ama].  The author of the
book said "this is great".

[Clans of the Aslan]: https://www.mongoosepublishing.com/products/clans-of-the-aslan
[ama]: https://old.reddit.com/r/traveller/comments/1mjfzzf/aslan_military_academy/


## Miscellaneous

Today I put together the new chair, which is the *last piece of furniture!*

All the art prints have arrived too, and the frames will be here tomorrow.  Then
that's everything done.  Of course, I have further ideas---maybe doing a gallery
wall in the study; replacing the blinds in the living room with something nicer;
replacing the fridge / freezer with two separate units; etc---but those are all
low-priority things to tackle in the coming months and years, if ever.

The next big project will be the garden, in Spring.
