---
date: 2025-08-17
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Cunning Folk][] by Adam Nevill

  Compared to the other two Adam Nevill books I've read, this was rather
  straightforward.  It also didn't have a sudden tonal shift towards the end,
  which could be a good thing or a bad thing: I've not minded it but I know it's
  a point a lot of people criticise him for.  The book was enjoyable, but if
  this had been my first Adam Nevill story I probably wouldn't have felt as
  compelled to check out the rest of his bibliography.

- [Algebraic Models for Accounting Systems][] by Rambaud et al

  I'd had my eye on this for a while, as it's *the* book that gets recommended
  if you're into mathematical treatments of accounting, but personally I felt it
  was a bit of a let-down.  The book was *interesting* but not *insightful*.
  For example, after defining an algebraic model of an accounting system, the
  authors show how the standard algebraic notion of a quotient system can be
  used to derive standard accounting reports.  That's interesting!  But then
  they go on to point out that the number of quotient systems increases
  exponentially with the number of accounts, so any nontrivial accounting system
  will have a *lot* of quotient systems, the vast majority of which will not
  correspond to any useful accounting ideas.

  What I had hoped to get from this book was "here's how we can model accounting
  systems with abstract algebra, and having done that we can now derive
  interesting results about accounting."  The book had the first part, but had
  nothing for the second part.

- [Clans of the Aslan][] (preorder PDF) from Mongoose Publishing

  I love the Aslan, my favourite alien race in Traveller.  This book goes into a
  lot more detail about how their society works, gives an overview of some
  important Aslan worlds, provides adventure hooks and suggested campaign
  outlines, and gives expanded rules on creating Aslan characters.  The only
  thing I really felt was missing was any discussion of what typical Aslan city
  looks like, which is something I've complained about in other Traveller
  supplements dealing with the Aslan.

[Cunning Folk]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58851564-cunning-folk
[Algebraic Models for Accounting Systems]: https://www.worldscientific.com/worldscibooks/10.1142/7445
[Clans of the Aslan]: https://www.mongoosepublishing.com/products/clans-of-the-aslan


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Due to illness and unavailability, it was only me and one other player this
week.  Thankfully it was the player of the cleric who's now in charge of the
Forum of Set, so we just spent the session doing admin: going through all the
rooms and gathering up loot, hiring staff, bringing in merchants to start to
offload some of the loot, unconsecrating the Temple of Set, and so on.

After this second pass for loot a bunch of characters levelled up again.
They've gained a *lot* of XP in the last few sessions: the party is something
like 200,000gp richer, and they also earned bonus XP from my house rules for
destroying a faction, establishing a safe haven, and exploring a bunch of
territory.


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [Index 1,600,000,000 Keys with Automata and Rust](https://burntsushi.net/transducers/)
- [Fun with finite state transducers](https://blog.yossarian.net/2025/08/14/Fun-with-finite-state-transducers)
