---
date: 2025-09-21
---

## Work

I took this week off.


## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 3 of the [Rozen Maiden][] anniversary edition by Peach-Pit

  We've now crossed the point where the anime adaptation diverges from the
  manga, though the remake addresses some of it.  I remember the ending of the
  anime being fairly rushed and confusing so I'm interested to see where the
  manga goes.

- [The Borderland][] from Mongoose Publishing

  Most of the Traveller setting books cover a whole sector, or at least a
  substantial portion of one, which is a vast region of space.  You get a short
  section about each system, but by necessity it can't really go into much
  detail.  They tend to focus on cross-system concerns like politics.  The
  Borderland isn't like that, it covers just 16 systems in the "borderland"
  region of the Trojan Reach, and it goes into a lot more detail.  Each system
  gets a star map, with information about all the bodies of note---not just the
  mainworld!  We get multiple adventure hooks for each system and ideas about
  how to tie them all together, there's even an included adventure that has the
  players caught up in a natural disaster.  It's everything you'd need to run a
  very local sandbox campaign.

[Rozen Maiden]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rozen_Maiden
[The Borderland]: https://www.mongoosepublishing.com/products/the-borderland


## Roleplaying Games

It seems now is the time long-delayed kickstarters finally come to fruition.
This week I received the Tome of Worldbuilding and the Nomicon (supposed to
arrive in June), got the dispatch notification for Yoon-Suin (supposed to arrive
in September... 2023), and (if the distributor is to be believed) next week my
Dolmenwood package (now a year overdue) will be posted.

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Hit a bit of technical difficulty this week with my aging headset (a HyperX
Cloud Alpha Pro) finally giving up the ghost, and the left audio channel died.
Not ideal but we powered through and I've ordered a new headset (a Beyerdynamic
MMX 330 Pro) which should be here tomorrow.

Putting that aside, the big news from this session is that the players met
Ravatorus, the insane rudishva survivor and progenitor of the fishmen!  The
players realised that his lair, that they'd followed clues to, was in fishman
territory so they made a hasty retreat and decided to pass along a message.  The
fishmen are kind of idiots, but with a bit of coaxing and lots of mention of
"the master", the players managed to get them to deliver a clay tablet upon
which they'd inscribed a message in the rudishva language.

Now, Ravatorus isn't *totally* disinterested in non-fishmen, the module notes
that if anyone manages to make it to his lair he'll likely talk to them, but
with a 50/50 chance every turn of deciding they need to be turned into fishmen.
So how would he react to the message?  I figured he'd most likely ignore it, but
I gave a 1-in-6 chance of him being intrigued enough to come see what was going
on: and I hit it.  After an hour and a half of waiting, the players about to
give up, a strange mutated form emerged from the water...

He was, predictably, totally uninterested in leaving the planet.  But he did
make sure to offer, several times, to turn people into fishmen if they'd like.


## Miscellaneous

This week I picked up [Timberborn][], a city-builder game where you manage a
colony of intelligent beavers on post-apocalyptic Earth.  I'd had my eye on it
for a while.  It's honestly pretty cool, the devs really leaned into the beaver
theme by making water management a very core aspect of the game, with frequent
droughts (and floods of polluted water) that you need to deal with: so what do
your beavers do?  They build a dam of course!

Another interesting aspect is that there are two factions of beavers, with
different buildings and playstyles.  You start with the nature-friendly faction
first, and unlock the more industry-focussed one when you get a colony to 15
happiness, which isn't too tricky once you've got the basics down.

It's still in early access, and has been since 2021, but it gets a major update
every so often, so they are still working on it.

[Timberborn]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1062090/Timberborn/
