---
date: 2025-10-05
---

## Books

No books this week.


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week the players completed the 6th and 7th trials.

I was quite interested in how the 6th would go as, while it didn't feel like a
major challenge for the party, there's still some interesting stuff in there
with an evil priest summoning monsters.  However, the players managed to bypass
all that: the party assassin, made invisible by a magic cloak and silenced,
managed to creep up on and assassinate the priest before they even knew anyone
was there.  The other players handily took out his non-magic-using assistants,
and completed the trial.

The 7th was very nearly a major defeat for the party.  If they hadn't have
thought to cast Haste before starting, the party's heavy-hitter and three of
their best spellcasters would have been dead, for sure.  Even as prepared as
they were, the final result came down a single initiative roll, which they won
and managed to defeat the guardian (a powerful water elemental) on the final
attack of their turn.

They've decided to take a little break to follow up on some rumoured treasure
before attempting the 8th trial.

### What comes next?

All week I've been thinking about the end of Arden Vul.  Even with the diversion
the players are on now, I still expect them to complete the trials this month,
or perhaps early next.  Then they'll be on track to the endgame, the final
battle against the heqeti.  We're planning to take a break for a week or two in
November to play some [Righteous Blood, Ruthless Blades][], so I'm not sure when
the campaign will actually end, but it wouldn't surprise me if it happens *this
year*.

Then... what comes next?  We've been doing this campaign for two and a half
years at this point.  I really like Traveller, but we've already done two
campaigns of that and, besides, I don't have a good idea for another yet.  Call
of Cthulhu and Delta Green are very fun, and I do have an idea of what we could
do with those, but the details are still fairly hazy.  I definitely don't want
to do another megadungeon so soon, in fact I'd like to avoid typical dungeon
fantasy entirely.

I've narrowed it down to two options.

**Ars Magica**, which I have run once before for another group, and it was a
complete disaster, but I'm a much better GM now, I have the mistakes of that
last campaign to learn from, and there's the new revised edition of the rulebook
which should be out later this year that will hopefully clear some things up.  I
think I could run a good campaign of this now.  But it takes a lot of player
buy-in and between-session effort, lacking that is partly why it failed so
spectacularly last time.

Or, if the players aren't into that (but I really hope they are),
**Dolmenwood**.  Which I've also run before, and one player in my group is
actually running their own Dolmenwood game right now, but they've said they'd
like to experience Dolmenwood as a player again, and it's different enough to
your typical D&D setting that it would be fun to revisit.  But I would much
prefer Ars Magica.

I've not mentioned any of this to the players, by the way.  They have no idea I
think the end is near, I don't want to prejudice their actions, I want them to
follow what interests them, and if that leads to the campaign ending, then so be
it.  Better to end on a high note with unsolved mysteries, than to spend another
year tediously pixel-bitching the dungeon to avoid triggering the end before
knowing everything.

[Righteous Blood, Ruthless Blades]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i9-pC3TisEA


## Miscellaneous

I started watching [Alien: Earth][] this weekend, it's pretty good so far.  The
hybrids (synths with human minds) being children in adult bodies is very uncanny
valley, and I imagine must have been pretty fun for the actors.

[Alien: Earth]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alien:_Earth
