---
date: 2025-10-19
---

## Books

This week I read:

- The [Dolmenwood Campaign Book][] from Necrotic Gnome

  I've not read any of this since my abortive work campaign in 2022, and even
  then I was working off the draft material as it existed for my prior campaign,
  some months previously.  Since then the material has been modified to suit the
  new rules, as well as benefiting from a lot of review and feedback.  It's been
  a fun read, it is mostly as I remember, but there are a few new things.

  One thing I particularly liked---which may have been there before but I just
  didn't notice---is in the rules for exploring a hex.  I always found it a bit
  unsatisfying to give the players *all* the hidden features when they explored
  a hex, as that makes it hard to add new features (like a dungeon) to a hex
  that the players have already visited.  And also a six mile hex of woodland is
  a huge area to search, finding everything there is to find in a few hours
  doesn't seem reasonable.  The book now clarifies that finding all the hidden
  features is the default, but you can instead opt to reveal just one hidden
  feature (i.e. the next one they haven't found), or even roll for whether they
  find a hidden feature.  I really like the rolling option: it means you can
  never really know for sure that you've found everything, and even familiar
  locations you've visited many times can still surprise you.

[Dolmenwood Campaign Book]: https://necroticgnome.com/pages/about-dolmenwood


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week, more exploration.  The players found their way down to the base of
the chasm and met Vingelok, a niravairi havildar in the Order of Planar
Explorers and rescued him from a band of demonic hunters.  Now I need to read up
on a whole sublevel that I thought the players would never find!  I expect the
players to visit Level 10 in the climax of the campaign, so we *may* end up
visiting every level and sublevel this campaign: all that's left is SL11, the
Tomb of Isadora, which they'll get a hint towards when they complete the Trials
of Arden.

Vingelok is going to spend a few days recuperating before setting off, so next
session will be about killing time.  Will they return to the Trials of Arden..?

### Righteous Blood, Ruthless Blades

We've picked the date for our next campaign break: the 9th, and possibly 16th,
of November.  I'll be running *The Obsidian Bat*, the sample adventure in the
rulebook.  I've never run a wuxia game before, it'll be fun!  The thing to keep
in mind is just to have all the characters' behaviour be totally over-the-top.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Consent and How Mechanics Imply Flavor](https://srasu.org/posts/mechanics-imply-flavor/)
