---
date: 2025-11-02
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Solaris][] by Stanislaw Len

  Which I last read over 10 years ago!  I overheard a conversation about how bad
  the film adaptation was, and it got me wanting to read the book again.  It
  sets out to tell a first contact story without falling into the trap of
  anthropocentrism and it succeeds 100%, I'd forgotten just how *unresolved* the
  book left everything.  Contact had been made, kind of, if of a very one-way
  sort, but was anything actually communicated?  Was this even an attempt at
  contact, or were the manifestations just the equivalent of poking these
  strange new things (human brains) in the environment with a stick?

[Solaris]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solaris_(novel)


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week the players helped Vingalok find the lost base of the Order of Planar
Explorers and rescue the other members from their thousand-year overdue mission
into the astral plane to loot the god-corpse of Horus.

I 100% expected the players to totally miss that whole sublevel, it's incredibly
hard to find; but they had to go meet Vingalok.  Ah well...

The entrance to it has a light & colour based puzzle, and I wasn't sure whether
it'd be fun or frustrating.  But to my surprise the players got quite into it
(one in particular) and didn't exactly figure it out, but managed to manipulate
things into being better for them.  When they finally got to the Order of Planar
Explorer guys and pulled them out of the astral plane I had them act like total
bros: lots of high fives, back slapping, friendly joking; comments like "it's
been a thousand years!" "oh no!  do you think my bar tab's still on file" and
"the near-astral around here's a mess, lotta demiplanes, you've got a bit of a
lich problem don't you? best sort that out", it was a good time.

Next week we're playing our one-shot of Righteous Blood, Ruthless Blades!


## Miscellaneous

My garden is ready for Phase Two: sowing [yellow rattle][], to keep the grass
from coming back and choking out other wildflowers.

This week I cleared away some of the woodchips and found that the grass beneath
(which has been buried [since July][]) is very dead, and the bottom layer of
woodchips has rotted and been incorporated into the soil somewhat.  I've taken a
few days off work next week, so I'll clear away all the unrotted chips (I'll
just pile them up in the paved area at the back of the garden until I get a
compost bin) to expose the soil and then sow the seeds.  They'll sprout in
spring, when I'll sow the rest of the flowers.

[yellow rattle]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhinanthus_minor
[since July]: notes/356.html
