---
date: 2025-11-09
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Wizard Knight][] by Gene Wolfe

  This is the tale of an American teenager somehow transported into a world
  that's an interesting mixture of Christian and Norse cosmology, and is
  magically aged to adulthood.  Gene Wolfe manages to pull off the combo, making
  it feel like a cohesive whole.
  
  I really enjoyed this one.  The story is told from a first-person perspective
  and he's not an *unreliable* narrator, but he does approach things as a
  teenager who suddenly gained a much more powerful body would, e.g. he
  sometimes describes helping people or solving some problem in a way that's
  clear to the reader he just used his powerful stature to intimidate people
  into doing what he wanted.  He sometimes tries to tell people the truth,
  saying that he's just a boy in a man's body, which invariably results in
  people thinking he's talking metaphorically and says "yeah, me too", which is
  kind of a moral for the reader (we all feel like that at times), but very
  frustrating for the protagonist for whom it's literally true.

[The Wizard Knight]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wizard_Knight


## Roleplaying Games

### Righteous Blood, Ruthless Blades

This weekend we played *The Obsidian Bat*, the scenario included in the
*Righteous Blood, Ruthless Blades* rulebook, instead of our usual Arden Vul
game.  It was fun, though all the NPC abilities were a bit much to keep track of
as a GM.  We probably won't return to this for a campaign.


### Delta Green

I had some friends visit this weekend, and we played the *Convergence* scenario
for *Delta Green*, which was actually the first scenario ever published for it!
This took us about 8 hours over 2 days and ultimately resulted in the PCs dying:
one killed by a mi-go lightning gun, the other burned to death after setting the
car she was in on fire in order to take out another mi-go.  The botched attempt
to deal with the mi-go resulted in a lot of people dying, too.

But since the mi-go abandoned their experiments and all the alien matter was
rendered inert, that's case closed as far as Delta Green's concerned.  Hooray!

### Ars Magica

I shared my campaign pitch with the player visiting me this weekend and they
were into it, I then shared it with another online and they were less certain.
But Arden Vul's not done yet so I have time to work on them.


## Miscellaneous

On Thursday I cleared most of the woodchips away in the garden so I could sow
the yellow rattle seeds.  I left them heaped up where I'm going to have a bed of
sunflowers (no need to put yellow rattle there) and behind the garage where I'm
going to put the compost bin.  It was tiring work, about 5 hours of shovelling;
by the end of the day my shoulders were sore, but that wore off overnight and
the next day it was my legs that were killing me.  But it's done now.  There's
supposed to be light rain basically all next week, which will hopefully help the
seeds get started.

Now we wait until spring, when I'll sow the rest of the seeds.
