---
date: 2025-11-23
---

## Work

I changed teams at work this week, my old team is being relocated to the new
Lisbon office so all the London members are being rotated out.  For the time
being I'm back on my previous team, the one I was on about two years ago, doing
some more work on core money movement logic.  It's quite nice to get stuck back
into some difficult technical stuff, things had slowed down quite a bit with the
other team due to the rotation.


## Books

This week I read:

- [The Magus][] by John Fowles

  This was a weird book, I'm still not sure what happened.  It was really good,
  it's just hard to say what it was about or what the moral (if any) of it was:
  at first it seems to be about a man being inducted into some sort of mystical
  knowledge, of ghosts and other worlds; then it becomes an elaborate role-play
  as experimental treatment for mental disorders; then some sort of trick played
  on the poor suffering protagonist; then a cult of experimental psychologists;
  then back to an role-play, but one with the goal of *freeing your mind*; and
  I'm not sure if that's all or if there are other layers I missed.  The
  protagonist is a man adrift in society, who undergoes a profound experience
  which ought to change him, and he feels it has, but in the end... he acts like
  he did at the start.  He was unable to grow.

[The Magus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Magus_(novel)


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

A pretty busy session this week!  The players started out by finishing their
exploration of the Forge of Zhorak, now that they had his ring that would open
the secret door they found.  Beyond the door lay the body of Zhorak where he
starved to death, trapped by an apprentice trying to steal his secrets.  The
players put down the vengeful spirit of Zhorak and burned the body to stop it
coming back.  They explored around a little more, found some more treasure, then
called it a day.

After that they resolved two long-standing plot threads.

Firstly, they healed the murderously insane rudishva, which was the *last thing
left* before Triv-Lok could leave!  That done, they escorted her and the
rudishva to the shuttle bay, where to their surprise Kerbog Khan teleported in
to join the group too!  Triv-Lok and KK worked on final launch preparations,
then they all piled into the shuttle.  The party waved goodbye as they took off,
blowing a hole through the cliff face (through the ankles of the colossus of
Arden in fact), and headed to the stars...  The players first met Triv-Lok in
session 52, and this was session 119.  Over a year of real time has passed, and
8 months of game time.

Secondly, they restored sanity to Lankios and learned his story: cursed by
Ardenia Tessaeron for forsaking his responsibilities to his men and for being
unable to render judgement in a case involving his friend and his unrequited
love.  He asked the players to go see the tombs of Kaitor and Guivrel and render
judgement for him.  The party, containing two clerics of Ardenia Tessaeron, of
course agreed.  Ultimately they decided Kaitor was guilty, which is one of the
acceptable answers (different things happen depending on what they choose), and
returned to Lankios to tell him their choice.  The players first met Lankios in
session 14, over two years ago!
