---
date: 2025-11-30
---

## Books

No books this week.


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Sadly one player decided to drop out of the game.  They've got health issues
which means they were missing more and more sessions and they wanted to take a
break until things change.  So now we're down to two players again: the same two
who've been around since sessions 1 and 3.

Other than that, this was a pretty good session.  We started with some downtime
for spell research, during which rumours began to circulate about the
disappearance of Kerbog Khan, then after that they set off to explore the Temple
of Anubis armed with their new mastery of the spell *Sun's Gift*, which is like
*Continual Light* but makes true sunlight.  Most of the monsters in the Temple
are all repelled by sunlight, so it was a pretty straightforward task; though
the shadow monsters fled through the rubble of a collapsed corridor.  The
players intend to return next time, clear the rubble, and defeat the shadow
lord!

Unfortunately that won't work, the shadows have fled into the Great Chasm and
will hide out there for a while (they might even permanently leave the Temple of
Anubis, I'm not sure), but it *will* lead to their first encounter with the
heqeti!


## Miscellaneous

Bit of an unfortunate week.  On Monday the tilt mechanism in my chair broke,
thankfully it's still in warranty so I could contact support for a replacement
part but that's not here yet so I've been sitting in a weird hunched position
all week.  Then on Wednesday I started to come down with a cold, which got much
worse on Thursday and I had to take the day off; I spent most of it in bed, then
we had a company day off on Friday so I lazed around for that too.
