---
date: 2025-12-07
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Absolution][] by Jeff VanderMeer

  This is split into two parts, the first set before the border of Area X comes
  down and is about a spy from the mysterious "Central", looking into the area
  because a previous mission, a few decades ago, had some strange happenings.
  Area X has been strange for a long time.  The second part covers the first
  mission into Area X, giving the backstory for Lowry who plays a significant
  part in the other books as overseer of the Southern Reach.

  The Lowry bits were interesting but I didn't feel expanding on his story
  really improved anything: turns out he was nuts even before going into Area X.

[Absolution]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Absolution_(VanderMeer_novel)


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week the players encountered the feared heqeti---bipedal salamander-like
beings from the underdark, with a loathing of all surface-dwellers---for the
first time!  They took out the guard group they stumbled upon, taking care to
remove the bodies and cover up their means of entrance afterwards to hopefully
avoid raising the alarm too soon.

It's kind of amazing that we're 121 sessions into the game and still
encountering major factions for the first time.  They've seen a lot of heqeti
*stuff* in the campaign so far, but never before an actual heqeti.

After that, more exploration.

They found the door to the tomb of Liskon the Mad, following a map they've got,
but they don't have a means of opening it.  What they *don't* know is that the
tomb got repurposed as a magical safe-house by an archmage back in the old days,
and the door is wizard-locked.  They detected the enchantment, but thought it
was something to do with the amnesiac people they keep finding in the area (like
touching the door wipes your memoies) and decided to back off.

Next time, we're returning to the Trials of Arden, which means they might have
to fight 1,234 ghasts!

### Solo

I've been trying to get to grips with the solo rules for The One Ring,
specifically the Moria expansion, this week.  The premise is that you're running
one of the captains in Balin's ill-fated expedition to reclaim Moria between the
events of *The Hobbit* and *The Fellowship of the Ring*.  It comes with tables
to generate missions as well as whole new combat and skill resolution rules for
running your band of dwarves.  I find solo games interesting, but a bit hard to
get into; it's tricky coming up with interesting adventures that last a good
amount of time when you're both the GM and player (at least for me), but I'd
like to stick with it and givt it a good go this time.

One thing I'm trying this time is keeping track of "opportunities" (things
spotted in previous adventures that may become seeds for future adventures) and
"loose ends" (problems untresolved in previous adventures that might come back
to bite me), and using those to help interpret the random events.


## Miscellaneous

A small patch of grass has appeared in the garden, so it somehow survived being
buried under woodchips for four months and has begun to regrow.  Hopefully it
won't spread too far before the yellow rattle starts to grow and I sow the rest
of the seeds in spring.  The garden doesn't need to be totally grass-free, it
just needs little enough grass that the flowers don't get choked out before they
can establish themselves.
