---
date: 2025-12-14
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Wide Carnivorous Sky & Other Monstrous Geographies][wcs] a collection of short stories by John Langan

  The first story in this collection was pretty weak---a poor first
  impression---but the rest made up for it.  My favourites were *Technicolor*
  and *Mother of Stone*.  Langan experiments with writing style: one story is
  written like a play, one as a collection of scenes, and *Mother of Stone* is
  written in second-person present which I don't think I've ever seen before.

  I thought John Langan's name was familiar, and it turns out he wrote one of my
  favourite stories from volume 2 of *Black Wings of Cthulhu*, which [I read
  back in 2021][w122].

[wcs]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17839778-the-wide-carnivorous-sky-and-other-monstrous-geographies
[w122]: notes/122.html


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week the players returned to the Trials of Arden and completed the 9th
trial, which if you just try to brute-force it requires killing 1,234 ghasts and
a banshee.  The actual solution is to find some way to distract the ghasts and
make your way over to the banshee to defeat it in a musical duel.  The players
prepared pretty well for this, they spent a month of downtime learning various
musical instruments, and in the trial itself had a loud fight drawing the
attention of the undead while another character was turned invisible and hurried
off to deal with the banshee.

After that they briefly considered going straight into the 10th trial, but opted
for a bit of exploration instead.  Evidently with a taste for undead meat, they
went to the Necropolis of Set.  We ended the session with them confronting
Meskenit, the Greater Mummy, and his servitors: a horde of ghasts and ghouls,
with a wight and a regular mummy in the mix as well.

Right off the bat, four of the retainers got paralysed with fear, and Meskenit
has a collection of spells and magic items at his disposal.  We'll pick it up
next time and see what happens.


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [How Google Maps quietly allocates survival across London’s restaurants](https://laurenleek.substack.com/p/how-google-maps-quietly-allocates)
