---
date: 2025-12-21
---

## Work

Done with work for the year now, I'm back on the 5th.

The big news is that my employer is being acquired.  Nothing material changes
until the deal completes around mid next year, but one very nice upside of this
is that the CEO has taken back his mandate that everyone needs to be in the
office three days a week as of June, to align our working policies with our new
owner, who leave that decision up to individual teams.  I find it a bit
disappointing that the policy being wildly unpopular isn't what changed things,
money is, but it's still a welcome change.


## Books

This week I read:

- [The Fifth Head of Cerberus][] by Gene Wolfe

  This is a collection of three stories set on a pair of closely orbiting
  worlds, one of which had a native population of shapeshifters.  Or maybe it
  didn't, maybe they were stories made up by the settlers.  Or maybe the
  aboriginals killed and replaced the settlers, because how would you even be
  able to tell with a shapeshifter?  Along with colonialism, mimicry and
  identity are big themes in each story, and some characters are arguably just
  different aspects of others.

[The Fifth Head of Cerberus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Fifth_Head_of_Cerberus


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week we opened with the fight against Meskenit: he won initiative and
immediately killed six of the party members with a magic item.  No save, just
dead.  That's pretty much what I expected to happen.  Then the remaining three
members of the party beat him up as, due to some lucky initiative rolls, they
managed to make him lose his next turn, and prevented him from casting any
spells.

After that, a few weeks of downtime to bring the dead party members back,
followed up by more exploration of the Set necropolis area.  One of the players
said they felt we were getting close to the end of Arden Vul: they can have most
of the party die and shrug it off like it was nothing, and also they've achieved
most of their big goals.  Triv-Lok has left, Kerbog Khan going with her.  The
Varumani have been restored.  Lankios healed.  The Cult of Set vanquished.  The
Temple of Thoth restored.  What's left?

One player wants to finish the Trials of Arden, another wants to find out what's
going on with the heqeti.  After a bit of discussion I gave them the hint that
they should do the Trials of Arden before seriously going after the heqeti.  So
that's what they're going to focus on first.

The campaign is finally coming to an end.  A bit later than I expected, but
still via the route I thought it would.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Sleuthing Out Tlaukhu Details](https://greatdungeonnorth.blogspot.com/2025/12/sleuthing-out-tlaukhu-details.html)

### Software engineering

- [Introducing CSS Grid Lanes](https://webkit.org/blog/17660/introducing-css-grid-lanes/)
