---
date: 2026-01-04
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 1 of [Tower Dungeon][] by Tsutomu Nihei

  I'd heard good things about this, so when my brother offered me a spare copy
  while I was visiting for Christmas, I took it.  The setting has a very strange
  aesthetic, with elabourate costumes, masks, and really tall nobles; visually,
  it feels Dark Souls-esque.  This volume's really just an introduction, a taste
  of the world and the (aptly named) tower dungeon, which seems to be some sort
  of test or trial.  There's enough there that I'm interested in seeing more, so
  I'll likely pick up the next few volumes.

- [A Short Stay in Hell][] by Steven L. Peck

  This is a kind of expanded version of the [Library of Babel][], which it
  frequently references.  It's shorter than I was expecting, I didn't check the
  page count before putting it on my wishlist so I was expecting something more
  novel-sized, but having read it now there's not really enough story here to
  pad it out, it's a good length for what the author was doing.

[Tower Dungeon]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tower_Dungeon
[A Short Stay in Hell]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Short_Stay_in_Hell
[Library of Babel]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Library_of_Babel


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This and last week were mostly odd jobs: visiting places, consulting sages,
depetrifying statues, joining up empty spaces on the map, and so on.

They also completed the 10th Trial of Arden, and were a bit surprised by how
easy it was; but they are doing it on easy-mode by going in as a party of
high-level adventurers armed to the teeth with magic items, rather than sending
one champion in alone.  It still counts for the big reveal of the 12th Trial
though.


## Miscellaneous

It's a new anime season, and there's not really much that catches the eye this
time.  I'll definitely watch season 2 of Frieren, but maybe not anything else.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Crossing the Dungeon Rubicon](https://dododecahedron.blog/2025/12/16/crossing-the-dungeon-rubicon/)
- [Holdings and the Multiworld Clan](https://greatdungeonnorth.blogspot.com/2025/12/holdings-and-multiworld-clan.html)
