---
date: 2026-01-11
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Shaman][] by Kim Stanley Robinson

  KSR is more known for his Mars trilogy, which I've read and greatly enjoyed,
  so I was interested to check this book out but I'd say Shaman was just *ok*.
  I probably wouldn't have picked it up if it had been by a different author.
  It was entertaining enough I suppose, it had action and excitement, I read the
  book fairly quickly, but it just wasn't up to the same standard really.

[Shaman]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shaman_(novel)


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week the players decided to go after Kel Bormol's lair, to try to find the
password for his secret stash.  This led them into the Tower of Scrutiny, which
is one of the first locations it's possible to enter in Arden Vul (you can get
there from the surface) but which they'd never been in before.  Well, they
decided not to spend much time there after seeing several wraiths descend,
screaming, through a cloud of magical darkness above them.

After that, they went in search of Marius Tricotor's outpost at the base of the
chasm, which led to meeting the vampire Cinna Minnux.  He knew he was outclassed
and bluffed a bit by acting all-knowing and "allowing" the PCs to leave his
domain which worked, the players left and tried another route.  We ended the
session with them at the base of the chasm.

I wasn't expecting them to head down there so I was improvising a lot of it,
I'll be better prepared for next week.  There's plenty of interesting stuff down
there, nasty too.


## Miscellaneous

I played some [Disco Elysium][] this week for the first time.  I went in almost
totally blind, all I knew about the game was that you play a detective who has
lost their memory and that people think this is one of the greatest RPGs ever
made.  It's certainly unconventional, and interesting.  I made it about an hour
and a half before my character had a mental breakdown and quit his job to go
live under a bridge.  I'm going to have to give it another shot.

[Disco Elysium]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disco_Elysium
