---
date: 2026-01-25
---

## Books

No books this week!


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

It was a pretty big session this week.  On Monday one of the players messaged me
to say she thinks she wants her illusionist to dedicate herself to Thoth, to
attempt his trials, and claim the mask of the High Priest.  So that's both
players now working towards a big goal.

Today, the illusionist did just that, converting to Thoth (with the aid of an
ancient Thothian priest the party had previously depetrified, and another
ancient Thothian priest who had been willingly turned into a kind of living
statue during her life) and then completing half of Thoth's tests.  After that,
the party went into the 11th Trial of Arden and the player who was focussing on
that more or less defeated two ancient red dragons single-handedly, buying time
for another party member to sneak in and grab the dragon egg they needed to
complete the trial.  The anger of the dragons will follow him through the planes
for all time.

It definitely feels like we're approaching the endgame now, the party are so
powerful that little is left to threaten them.  Once they enter the 12th Trial,
and are given the quest to vanquish the heqeti, that'll be it.


## Miscellaneous

I've started to pick up the gear for the garden: a bird house, two bird baths
(one raised, one ground level), two insect habitats, and wildflower seeds.  I
still need to pick up a composter, sunflower seeds, and peanuts for the birds.
The plan is to get everything set up early March, or late February if it's a
warm one.

I briefly considered a pond, but I think the best place for that would be in the
paved area at the back, as it's larger than I really need.  But that's not
something I can really DIY (I'd need to get someone in to take up slabs, dig a
big hole, and so on) so that's a project for the future.
