---
date: 2026-02-15
---

## Books

No books this week.


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Only one player this week.

We began the session by being ambushed by a dark spirit, a being of divine
vengeance which (last time) the players had trapped in a magic net.
Unfortunately they left it too close to the god's altar, which let it destroy
the net.  The combat could have gone very badly for the party, as the spirit
magically confused both front-line fighters, one of whom now has a powerful
divine weapon which allows three attacks per round and does a load of damage;
but they managed to pass their spell saves long enough to throw away their gear
and be tied up by the rest of the party.

After that, mostly exploration.  They found one of the ancient artefacts, the
"regalia", that they have been semi-searching for all campaign: the Tablet of
the Beacon.  It's a master control key for the spaceship (or at least what
functions of it survived the crash), but it's a bit less useful now that the
ship's friendly AI has left the planet as they have no way of knowing the
greatest power of the Tablet: the ability to issue binding commands to the
insane AI that guards the alien weapons locker, which has a nuke.

Finally, one character decided to challenge the Tower of Pol, which was
constructed by an archmage (Pol) back in ancient times and is the centre of some
sort of wizard duel thing.  They had good instincts, they tried to sneak up on
the current castellan while invisible and magically silenced, but unfortunately
for them the magic Pol placed on the tower requires actually issuing a verbal
challenge.  They tried again, issuing a challenge this time, and proceded to get
comprehensively defeated.  Ah well, at least they knew in advance that the loser
gets turned to stone and had arranged for rescue just in case.


## Miscellaneous

I've discovered that the local birds love peanuts so much they'll eat them to
the exclusion of all else.  I might have to ration the peanuts (which I put on
the table) so they use the feeder (which has smaller, mixed, seeds) more.
