---
date: 2026-03-01
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Veins of the Earth][], by Patrick Stuart and Scrap Princess

  I've been rereading this as I had an idle thought about maybe running a game
  set in the Underdark.  It's a very evocative book, but I once heard that
  Patrick Stuart doesn't actually playtest anything, it's all just vibes and I
  can really see that.  There is good stuff here, but it'd take a lot of work to
  actually *use*.  A lot of it is needlessly edgy too, like one of the monster
  descriptions says that there's only one of these creatures ever, in any of
  your campaigns, so if it dies rip out the page and throw it away.  Come on.

[Veins of the Earth]: https://rpggeek.com/rpgitem/225306/veins-of-the-earth


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

It was a pretty big session this week.

The players decided to scout out the path to the Ziggurat of Kauket, but quickly
found that it was blocked by a portcullis and guarded.  So they hung around for
a while to see if anyone passed through who they could sneak in behind, and
instead they saw a group of heqeti coming out with a captive goblin in some sort
of man-shaped cage full of blades.  They waited until the heqeti were distracted
with their sacrificial ritual, then jumped and killed them all, saving the
prisoner.  Unfortunately, his tongue had been ripped out (before this whole
thing started), but at least he wasn't sacrificed.

They didn't really have any idea for how to get through the portcullis, so the
next day they decided to follow up on another lead: the rumoured resting place
of the bodies of Priscus Pulcher and his lover, the dragon Yasidoranicil.  They
knew from a book that "the Villa of Ysadora" was a potential site, so they spent
two days searching the outskirts of the ruined city for it, eventually finding
it and discovering the secret basement.  One PC fell through an illusory floor
into a vast underground space (and survived), falling 110ft and slamming into
the sandy ground next to a life-size solid gold statue of a dragon with an
inscription about how Yasidoranicil loved Priscus and rescued his body after his
death.  Cue one player "ohhh, Isadora *is* the dragon".

I don't think they've realised yet that the statue isn't really a statue; it's
*also* the dragon...


## Link Roundup

### Miscellaneous

- [Warfare in Dune, Part I: Fighting Faufreluches](https://acoup.blog/2026/02/24/collections-warfare-in-dune-part-i-fighting-faufreluches/)
