---
date: 2026-03-08
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Ker Nethalas][] from Blackoath Entertinment

  A solo dungeoncrawling RPG.  It's definitely on the more "procedural" end of
  the spectrum, with processes to generate dungeon rooms, determine what's in
  them, and resolve fights.  I expect it to play like a boardgame, kind of like
  [Morkin][] did; but Morkin was fun, and I think Ker Nethalas will be too.

[Ker Nethalas]: https://kernethalas.com/
[Morkin]: https://morkin-game.com/


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

This week we picked up at the beginning of combat in the Tomb of Isadora.  The
players defeated the animated statues and iron golem (not really a surprise any
more) and proceeded to explore the place fully.  They solved a puzzle that led
to the secret tomb of Priscus Pulcher himself, and fought four invisible
stalkers for the loot.  Since they've explored the whole place and only found
one body they're now 80% sure that the "statue" of a gold dragon is actually
Isadora the gold dragon just in some sort of death-like hibernation, but they
don't want to put that theory to the test for some reason...

After that, they received intel from the Sun-Scarred Knights that there may be a
way down to the heqeti Ziggurat of Kauket via an underground river.  Off they
went, and we ended the session with them emerging from the river to stand atop a
giant dam, overlooking a stinking bioluminescent marsh in a vast cavern, with a
huge stepped structure rising from the centre.  We're finally here!


## Miscellaneous

Nothing much of note this week.  I pruned the bushes at the back of my garden,
and loaded up the branches into the compost bin.  I've been putting the
appropriate kitchen waste there too: used tea leaves, stale bread, vegetable
peels.  No sign of anything rotting yet, even the things that have been there
for a couple of weeks.  I'm sure it'll start to happen sooner or later.
