---
date: 2026-03-15
---

## Books

This week I read:

- A Field Guide to, and The Dark of, [Hot Springs Island][] by Jacob Hurst

  I've been reading a lot of RPG material lately, planning for the next
  campaign.  More thoughts on that below.

[Hot Springs Island]: https://shop.swordfishislands.com/books/


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Not much in terms of *action* this week, but pretty big in terms of
*consequences*.  The players scouted out much of the cavern of the Ziggurat of
Kauket, including the route back to the chasm floor, without being discovered.
They now have a map of the area and know where to march their army.
Simultaneously, they had their army moving massive amounts of treasure (via the
pair of linked teleporters they set up) between the Tomb of Isadora and their
secure vault.  This culminated in over *3 million XP*, which levelled up all the
PCs and brought their entire army (over 200 guys) up from 1st to 3rd level.

Discussion between the players after the session basically came down to "we've
got two things left: destroy the ziggurat, then take down the dragon".

So the end is nigh.

We've decided not to use mass combat rules when they go for the ziggurat.  We
did for the war on the Cult of Set but it was slow and also felt a bit
anticlimactic, as the only Setite leader we fought in a personal-scale combat
was Stephania.  So for the ziggurat, we're going to abstract the larger battle
into the background (I'll have a look at the relative strength of the heqeti and
the players' troops and make something up), and the players will instead switch
between controlling their characters, a group of 8 Sun-Scarred Knights who will
be accompanying them, and 4 Varumani Hunters.  These three groups will be going
after the heqeti leaders and securing strategic locations, but also the
Sun-Scarred Knights and the Varumani have their own objectives which I've
included to foster some interesting roleplaying.

Still working them out, but broadly what I have for the Knights is:

1. Survive, as the loss of even a single knight is a diffficult cost to bear
2. Weaken the varumani if we can do so without being caught, they're getting too powerful
3. Avoid using our most powerful weapons as recharging them is difficult

And for the Varumani:

1. Win glory, go out with a bang if death is inevitable
2. Find our comrade Bedara, or her remains
3. Survive

Very different priorities on survival!  Possible secret betrayal from the
Knights!  Fun times and excitement ahead.

### The next campaign?

I *was* going to run Ars Magica.  It's a game I've wanted to play for a long
time, and the new Definitive Edition got me very excited for it.  But... that
was a while ago, Arden Vul has gone on for so much longer that the excitement
has cooled.  And so I've been looking at OSR things again.

Hot Springs Island is a strong contender for the next game.  It's a very dense
island hexcrawl with a lot of faction play and weirdness.  It's much more "5e"
than "OSR" in tone I think, but still doable (you'd just need to use a system
with slightly more powerful characters than, say, OSE).  The lore is cool.  It
comes with a player-facing book, presented as an in-world document from the
local Adventurers' Guild.  I think it could be a lot of fun.

But there's some not so great aspects too.

Firstly, it's system neutral, and not in the hepful way that a lot of OSR
products are (providing minimal stats), it provides *no* stats and just
describes everything through prose.  What's the relative power level of any two
creatures in the bestiary?  No way of telling.  I'd need to stat out all the
creatures, magic items, and anything else that interacts with game mechanics
myself.

Secondly, the dungeons kind of suck, they're somewhat linear as each one
basically exists to tell a story, and they're not really keyed, you're supposed
to roll to determine what's going on in each room every time the players visit.
Also they have maps but no scales, so it's hard to tell how big anything is.  So
I would probably want to substantially change the dungeons, maybe even replace
some of them entirely.

Thirdly, the author clearly has some sort of sex-thing going on, as the ancient
elves are obsessed with pregnancy and have orgy contests where teams would
compete to have the most orgasms in a certain time, the efreet faction has sex
slaves, and the ogre faction (who are former slaves (workers, not sex) who
rebelled and broke away from the efreet faction) kidnap strong female
adventurers and transform them into ogres to produce lots of ogre babies.  The
only faction which doesn't have a sex-thing going on is the nereids, who are
all... beautiful women... oh dear.

Overall I'd say the major weakness of Hot Springs Island is that the book is
very high-concept, but for actual at-the-table use you need detail, which it
doesn't give you much of.  It's usable, but will take work.  It reminds me of
Veins of the Earth in that way, which I complained about a couple of weeks ago.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [How I build Random Encounter Tables](https://swamphead.substack.com/p/how-i-build-random-encounter-tables)
- [Most Adventures are Bad - An Adventure Writing Process](https://alldeadgenerations.blogspot.com/2025/03/most-adventures-are-bad-adventure.html)
- [Coinage and the Tyranny of Fantasy ‘Gold’](https://acoup.blog/2025/01/03/collections-coinage-and-the-tyranny-of-fantasy-gold/)
- [Warfare in Dune, Part II: The Fremen Jihad](https://acoup.blog/2026/03/13/collections-warfare-in-dune-part-ii-the-fremen-jihad/)
