---
date: 2026-03-22
---

## Books

No books this week.


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

It's finally happening!  The assault on the Ziggurat of Kauket!  Today about
half an hour into the session the players jumpscared me with "we think we're
ready"---for some reason I thought they'd *end* a session with that and I'd have
a week to mentally prepare myself.

They came up with a reasonable plan: they'd send three characters, made
magically invisible, down the underground river (like when they scouted the
ziggurat out) to loop around and open the portcullis from the inside, with that
happening at the same time the army arrives.  This part went fairly well, though
they did alert the heqeti when they burst through a door without listening to
see if anyone was on the other side first.  But they completely lost the
momentum they had after taking the portcullis by pausing for 40 minutes to set
up a robot turret: useful to have if the enemy comes to you, but the heqeti fall
back to defensive positions at the ziggurat itself (I'm not just screwing over
my players, it's what the book says!) to prepare ambushes and summon demonic
allies.  So the enemy had plenty of time to get all their lengthy
demon-summoning rituals done, which they otherwise might not have.

The players then split their force into three, sending their allies towards the
ziggurat itself while they went off down a side corridor (kind of a dick move if
you ask me).  They fought and overcame some enemies, and I think the players are
finally getting a feel for why the heqeti are a dangerous faction: not so tough,
at their level, if they get the drop on a scouting party; but if the heqeti have
time to take up tactical positions their spellcasters are tough.

When they finally make it out to the ziggurat next session they'll see a scene
of pure chaos.  Pitched battle between their forces and the heqeti in the marsh,
a trio of 12ft tall demons stalking through the melee and melting people, giant
corpse-white worms eating people, and heqeti spellcasters on the ziggurat
throwing down fireballs from above.  But I'm pretty confident the players will
manage it.


## Miscellaneous

Family visited this weekend and helped me clear away the giant pile of woodchips
that's been slowly rotting at the back of my garden for the past couple of
months, so I got to set up my seating area.  Now everything is in place, just
need to wait for the flowers to appear.
