---
date: 2026-03-29
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [Ultraviolet Grasslands and the Black City][] (2nd edition) by Luka Rejec
- [Whitehack][] (4th edition) by Christian Mehrstam

  More on these below.

[Ultraviolet Grasslands and the Black City]: https://www.exaltedfuneral.com/products/uvg-2e
[Whitehack]: https://whitehackrpg.wordpress.com/


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

Well, they did it.

Last session the PCs got down to the base of the chasm with their army, the
varumani, and 8 Sun-Scarred knights.  They sent the knights & army south-east,
the varumani into the marsh, and themselves headed north-east and took out the
guards at the heqeti breeding ponds.  We weren't using mass combat rules, so I
essentially hand-waved the majority of the fight and decided that everyone the
PCs brought with them were tying up most of the heqeti and the real battle would
be over once the ziggurat itself was conquered.

The players emerged onto a summoning platform and saw a scene of chaos and
nightmare: varumani fighting maybe 60 heqeti, 3 12ft tall demons, and 2 huge
corpse-white worms.  Before them was a heqeti casting some sort of spell.  Atop
the ziggurat were two heqeti spellcasters with maybe a dozen guards, one bowed
with age who at a gesture of his wrinkled hand reduced several varumani to ash.

The heqeti on the summoning platform summoned a third great white worm, so the
players had to fight their way through that and two spellcasters to engage the
ziggurat.  Good use of a couple of silence spells shut down the spellcasters on
the ziggurat, and the party's heavy hitter got teleported to the top of the
ziggurat.  A wall of fire was used to shut down the stairs so that
reinforcements couldn't get up.  But those giant demons are no joke!  The
players eventually triumphed but it was two and a half hours of pretty dynamic
combat: splitting their forces, moving between vantage points, focussing on
different enemies, it didn't get stale at all.  We spent the final 30 minutes
just wandering around the area to see what heqeti life was like.

We're doing one final session next week to wrap up some loose ends---one player
wants to fight the dragon on the surface, another wants to attempt the Tower of
Pol---and then that'll be it!

### The next campaign?

This week I read Ultraviolet Grasslands, which was the other strong contender
for the next campaign.  In fact I was wondering if I could combine it with Hot
Springs Island (the grasslands connects to a port city that has ships which go
to the archipelago), but they're just too tonally different.  I'd have to make
UVG significantly less weird, in which case there's not much point using it.

I am toying with the idea of connecting them temporally though.  I could have
something distinctive and memorable in my Hot Springs Island setting, that
reappears later on when I run a UVG campaign but it's from *way in the past*,
but that's more of an easter egg.

So I'm going to go for Hot Springs Island next.

The question then becomes: which system do I use?  It's a system neutral book so
basically anything D&D-ish would work, but it does seem to be written assuming
fairly competent PCs: they'll be dealing with elementals and extraplanar
shenanigans.  Initially I was thinking [Worlds Without Number][] which is an OSR
system that has somewhat more high-powered characters, but [Whitehack][] also
came to mind.  Whitehack is interesting as it has a very flexible magic system,
whereas Worlds Without Number has a fairly standard spell list.  They'd both
work, but I am leaning towards Whitehack at the moment.  I'll be running
one-shots of both before deciding though.

[Worlds Without Number]: https://www.drivethrurpg.com/en/product/348809/worlds-without-number-free-edition


## Miscellaneous

I played through [Esoteric Ebb][] this week, it was a lot of fun.  It's
basically what you would get if you combined Disco Elysium and D&D.

[Esoteric Ebb]: https://esotericebb.com/
