---
date: 2026-04-05
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 13 of [Frieren: Beyond Journey's End][] by Kanehito Yamada and Tsukasa Abe

  In this volume Frieren escapes from the past, but is then confronted by
  another relic of the past: a group of mage-hunters, tasked with killing her
  long ago who had almost given up hope until she happens to travel through the
  village which one of them had been stationed in for so long he had married,
  had children, and become an old man.

[Frieren: Beyond Journey's End]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frieren


## Roleplaying Games

### The Halls of Arden Vul

It is done!

We wrapped up a few remaining player goals (including slaying a dragon) and then
went through every character and the players gave a short epilogue of what
they're up to in the coming months and years.  Some faded into obscurity,
preferring the quiet life; others became great leaders and respected heroes.  I
concluded with one final epilogue regarding the heqeti:

> Deep beneath the earth, several miles from the great Ziggurat of Kauket, the
> fleeing heqeti pilgrims arrive at the closest of their underdark habitations,
> a major temple-city with a population of thousands, which lies on the shores
> of the vast underground ocean: the Silent Sea.  Other travellers carry the
> news to Lissak-Tol, the city of the Kaliyani, and to the hidden Duregar
> enclaves, so secret that none but the Duregar themselves know their names.
> The news of this third loss of the Ziggurat, and of the much-loved and
> well-respected Great Tongue Reepsiq rocks heqeti society.  Some whisper that
> Kauket has turned his back on his Ziggurat, as punishment for the heqeti's
> failures; but this is never said in the hearing of the priests.  The Tongues,
> Great and Lesser, each a powerful Cleric who presides over a temple-city or a
> shrine, exchange correspondence, consult the omens, and gather in small
> groups, to debate what must be done.  But for a time, a few generations at
> least, Evil is driven from the Halls of Arden Vul.

Next week is the debrief session, and then on to a couple of months of oneshots
while I prepare the next campaign: Hot Springs Island!


## Miscellaneous

I've been playing a lot of [Timberborn][] this week.  Like... a *lot*.

[Timberborn]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1062090/Timberborn/
