---
date: 2026-04-19
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 2 of [The Book of the New Sun][], by Gene Wolfe

  Like with Volume 1, I think I got more out of this than when I read it the
  first time, since I was more aware of the story I could see the foreshadowing
  and interpret some of the more cryptic bits a little easier, though there's
  still so much that's hard to understand.  I can see how people can make a
  career out of gleaning wisdom from each confusing chapter.  It's such a good
  book.

[The Book of the New Sun]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Book_of_the_New_Sun


## Roleplaying Games

### One Shots

This week I ran the Call of Cthulhu scenario [Dead Light][], incorporating some
of the suggestions from [Seth Skorkowsky's review][] like starting the evening
*before* the scenario with the PCs making plans to attend a seance.  The players
caught on pretty quickly that the adventure was here on the road, and that the
seance had just been a framing device, but I still think it was a good choice.

The scenario is pretty limited in scope, it's kind of a "theme park" adventure
where the GM just presents weird things to the players that they can't really
influence, but that's ok for a one-shot (or as a brief interlude in a campaign).
I prepared by coming up with a list of key scenes beforehand, and more or less
just worked my way through the list over the course of the session.  The players
did end up trapping the Dead Light back in its box, they conducted the ritual to
seal it away but used the doctor's dead body rather than a living victim, I had
the Light visibly unsure, looking between the corpse and the living characters,
and the one leading the ritual had to make a hard POW roll (which they succeeded
at) to convince it to go for the body.  If they'd failed, the Light would have
consumed them.

All in all, a fun sidetrack.  Next week we're going to do some Whitehack, to
make sure everyone enjoys it since that's what I'm planning to use for the next
campaign.  If someone does hate it, I guess it's back to the drawing board!

[Dead Light]: https://www.chaosium.com/dead-light-and-other-dark-turns/
[Seth Skorkowsky's review]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WZYAlTPP_hE


## Miscellaneous

I looked the garden over again and it's maybe not as much of a lost cause as I
thought.  There's a lot of small leaves starting to show, even if there are no
flowers yet.  I pulled out a few clumps of grass and I think it can be saved,
it'll just be a lot of work.

Fortunately I've taken next week off work, so I'll just spend one day in the
garden.
