---
date: 2026-05-17
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [A Voyage to Arcturus][] by David Lindsay

  This is a hard book to describe.  I stumbled upon it in a Reddit thread which
  mentioned it as a major influence on C. S. Lewis's [Space Trilogy][], but even
  more allegorical if possible.  On the face of it, things just seem to happen
  to our protagonist: he is taken to an alien world and just kind of bumbles
  around, meeting people one at a time (and always conveniently finding the next
  companion after the last departs, often by dying), travelling with them for a
  while, and being driven entirely by circumstance with little free will of his
  own.  He kills a man for no good reason.  He falls deeply in love with, and
  then greatly mourns the death of, a woman who he barely knows.  He's even
  mocked for this ("you spent all night mourning a woman you knew for six
  hours") by another character.

  But looking a little deeper, each of his companions is a kind of puppet figure
  exhibiting a concept.  Emotion.  Reason.  Action.  Duty.  Spiritual oneness
  between Man and Woman.  Spiritual oneness between Man and God.  Love.  Pain.
  At the climax of the story is a very gnostic scene: the God that everyone on
  this alien world worships is depicted as a great cloud surrounding Creation,
  with life streaming in and through this "creator" from the greater spiritual
  world beyond, trapped within the cloud yet every striving to return to the
  source.  God is the Demiurge and the character who had been cast as the Devil
  is the True God.

  It feels like a book that would benefit from a careful re-read.

[A Voyage to Arcturus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Voyage_to_Arcturus
[Space Trilogy]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Space_Trilogy


## Roleplaying Games

### Hot Springs Island

No game this week, so I took the time to work some more on my Hot Springs Island
prep.  I had an outline of everything for Whitehack, but as one player didn't
like Whitehack and wanted something more like OSE I chose to use Dolmenwood,
which is basically just OSE + some more rules for overland exploration, if
you're not using the Dolmenwood setting.

To summarise, it's a human-only setting with a bespoke set of classes, and a
slightly simplified hexcrawling procedure (since the entire island is basically
one terrain type).  I'm also bringing back bonus XP for exploration and
milestones as that worked well in Arden Vul, though I'm simplifying it to a flat
5% bonus for every achievement (rather than having tiers of 2%, 5%, and 10%
depending on the size of the milestone).

The classes are:

- **Druid:** a combo of the OSE Druid and Dolmenwood Friar.
- **Elementalist:** the OSE Kineticist (kinetic powers reflavoured as elemental
  powers) plus the ability to speak the elemental language (giving a positive
  reaction modifier) and (when 9th level) conjure powerful elementals to fight
  for them.
- **Explorer:** the Dolmenwood Hunter.
- **Marine:** the Dolmenwood Fighter.
- **Treasure Hunter:** the Dolmenwood Thief, except that they can use all types
  of weapon and armour (though they can't sneak in heavy armour) and can
  accurately appraise treasure (whereas other characters will just get a
  ballpark value).
- **Wizard:** the Dolmenwood Magician, but with all the spells from Dolmenwood,
  OSE, and OSRIC available.

All that's left is converting the monsters---but that should be fairly easy as I
think for most of them there'll be an existing OSE or Dolmenwood monster I can
just use with minor tweaks.


## Miscellaneous

So many birds have discovered my garden I think I'm going to be financially
ruined by the cost of birdseed.  They're emptying the feeder every two days now
whereas once it would last the better part of a fortnight!


## Link Roundup

### Software engineering

- [Compressing Icelandic name declension patterns into a 3.27 kB trie](https://alexharri.com/blog/icelandic-name-declension-trie)
