---
date: 2026-06-07
---

## Books

No books this week!


## Roleplaying Games

### Hot Springs Island

This week the players kept working their way around the coast to the city (after
spending a few more hours with Trouble the salamander and realising than an
elemental's idea of "soon" might not be the same as theirs).  They eventually
made it to the city and explored around there a bit, before catching the boat
back to the mainland and banking their treasure.

I had planned a few things out to teach them some more lore: Ruston, the thief
NPC tagging along with the party, was going to spark up a conversation about the
division of the loot when they next camped, and in so doing discover that the
nereid portrait had changed (revealing that it was magic); and then the
following day, I'd fudge the first random encounter and kill him off quickly
with an unconventional creature (maybe a predatory plant) to get the players
scared, and to make them more excited when they finally found the Field Guide
(which I planned to happen next session).  But things didn't go according to
plan, with the players encountering and disturbing a snake, and really the only
reasonable target was one of the PCs---who died, and that player took over
Ruston.

I shuffled things around a little to adjust.  The snake proved to be a good
teaching encounter as they discovered that the snake meat is good eating for a
few days, and also the scales are made of actual copper which can be sold.  So
now they know there's reason to hunt and fight the creatures on the island, at
least in some cases.  The portrait I had them discover when they were selling
their loot, and they decided to keep it to investigate further, which is what I
had hoped for.

They also made it to the city a bit faster than I expected, so I gave them the
Field Guide this week as I wanted them to have it before they left the island.
My concern was the players going to join the local adventurers' guild now that
they've got a bit of experience, and the Field Guide is given out to all guild
members.  I did want them to *find* the Field Guide out in the wilds in a
dangerous place, as getting it for free wouldn't be as satisfying.  But they
didn't engage with the guild at all, they just sold their treasure and went
straight back to the island, so I *could* have left it to next week.  Oh well.

The city itself was another good teaching moment, as it's both a source of great
wealth and infested with highly aggressive lizardmen who set traps, and I made
sure that they saw both of these things.

I think they have now been exposed to a lot of the basics of the setting
(especially if they take the time to read the Field Guide), which should lead to
more exciting and focussed adventuring going forward; while "go to a dangerous
place and find treasure" is fun, it's *more* fun if the players are also
consciously engaging with factions and *weird things* and have more of a goal
than just get as rich as possible.

This will be a much shorter campaign than Arden Vul.  The island isn't that big,
and there's only so much for a group of highly active PCs to do.  If they're
diligent about treasure they'll level up every two or three sessions, and once
they're all level 10 they'll be a serious force on the island that only entire
factions can threaten.  There are a few individuals that could give a group of 3
level 10s a run for their money, but not many.

Still, a ~30 session campaign is a good amount of time---that would mean
finishing in late December if we never miss a week---so I'm ok with that.


## Miscellaneous

This week I participated in a really intense multiplayer Stardew Valley game
with 10 other people, using a mod called [Archipelago][] that adopts a really
interesting approach.

It locks elements of your game (like an item recipe, or the key for a door, or
the season of Spring, or an item at the shop, and so on) behind *another* player
doing something in *their* game.  Each player also has their own win condition,
and when you hit that it unlocks everything that others are depending on you
for.

For example, in my game I couldn't increase my friendship level with the NPCs.
Instead, other people had to do things (like harvest a particular crop) to
increase them.  My goal was to get married and have two children, so who I'd
marry was essentially totally up to the other players: I'd just take whoever I
first got to 10 hearts with.  The marriage I could do as soon as I got to the
required hearts, but *the babies* are also locked in other people's games.
Right now I have one child, but to get the other another player needs to kill 60
Void Spirits in their mines; but *they can't get to their mines yet* because
another thing the mod does is randomise the connections between doors and
interiors, and they've *not found their mines yet!*  We're pretty confident
where it is (after 6 days there's not many doors left to try), but to get there
a *third player* needs to brew some vodka in their game, which will remove the
landslide to the railway station in the second player's game, which is where we
think their mine entrance is, which will let them go into the mines and kill
void spirits to get me a second baby.

And the really cool thing is that Archipelago supports more than just Stardew
Valley.  You could have, say, one player in Stardew Valley, and another in Dark
Souls III, and another in Factorio, and another in Hollow Knight, and another in
... you get the picture.  And it works across games, everyone will have things
in their games locked behind others doing things in their games, even when those
are completely different games.  It's a really impressive piece of work, and
also super interesting from a graph theory / constraint satisfaction problem, as
it must be pretty difficult to ensure you don't generate an unwinnable game,
where there's a cycle in the dependencies locking someone out from their goal.

It's been a lot of fun, but also very intense.  I've played 40 hours of Stardew
Valley this week.

[Archipelago]: https://archipelago.gg/
